# Dixon Jones — YouTube Transcript 2

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9zNBIB_Q8WA
**Channel:** Dixon Jones / InLinks
**Date Collected:** April 29, 2026

## Transcript

[Music] Okay. So, in the studio we have uh Dixon Jones or to some of us uh Sir Dixon Jones. Um >> Well, that's very nice of you, but no, I'm a long way off that. >> Well, you you were obed. Is that correct? >> No, no, no. We I did go to Buckingham Palace a couple of times with in my majestic days. some majestic got a got a um an award for uh for it's called the queen's award. Uh so we went to go uh went to Buckingham Palace and had had champagne with the queen. >> So I don't have to call you sir. I just have to you know recognize >> you would be you Yeah. We'd we'd have to we'd have to cut your head off if you call me sir. Yeah. >> Yeah. I guess we're still that strict in the Commonwealth. Um Americans have no clue what we go through up here. Okay, we have we have in the studio with us Dixon Jones, the creator of not one, not two, but three major tools in the SEO uh SEM industries. The latest is the um AI uh AI it's an actionpacked tool. It's almost like a Swiss army knife. So it's like an indicator um a reader a follower and tracker um called W but his previous two inlinks and Majestic um anyone who's >> well I think it's it's fair to say I am not the programmer of any of these you know I I'm uh I'm the uh I'm the marketing I my only success in life is make sure your developer has more shares than you do. Uh so uh um there is there are other brains around around the ideas. Yes, I've been the the the front of these things but uh uh I don't want to take all the credit um or pretend to take all the credit. >> How would you I mean you're you're often credited as being the founder or the uh the brains behind. How would you uh uh uh uh characterize your role in all three companies but especially in Wake. >> So so in Majestic I was the marketing director. So I was one of the sort of co-founders in the limited company really. Um but uh but um I would say I was a more of a minority player although although I was the face of Majestic and everyone thought that it was you know all my business. I yes I was I was on the board and and and part of the the a big part I would like to say of the the development of it. um with uh in links and WK I'm much I'm the CEO so you know I so I'm I I have a much more significant influence on the uh the state of the the organization I'm also put money physical money into inlinks is part of inlinks so it's two two separate products in the same same limited company so uh so yes I think it's fair for me to say yeah I'm I'm I'm spearheading inlinks and WK I think it I I think I would get a slap on the wrist from the the guys at Majestic if I uh pretended that it was all me >> instrumental in I don't I don't want to you know I get on really well with the guys and I'm still very much involved in Majestic uh in uh in sort of helping to organize network meetings and stuff like that but uh yeah I'm not going to pretend that I was the only founder. >> Yeah. Okay, fair enough. Um, why WK? Well, first off, what is WK and what does WK mean? >> It's great, isn't it? So, it's uh it's you can't spell it. You can't pronounce it. And we don't even know in the.com. And there's reasons for all of that because the uh the very first thing that you have to say after what is W is it stands for what AI knows about you at which point I've done the elevator pitch, right? So, that was well thought through. We we did also buy a scanner.net. net and we were going to call it AI scanner. Um and uh we found that extremely generic in concept and we also when we were actually building the tool we were finding that any brand that was using generic words like AI and scanner in its in its branding was much more prone to hallucinations. So, uh, so if you've got a if you've got, you know, books.com, it's going to be much more likely that the that the LLMs get get things wrong about you. So, uh, you know, a Monday meeting, you know, we were arguing about what we should call ourselves and what the brand should be. And then someone said, well, why don't we just call it what it is, what AI knows about you. And and then we went, yeah, well, yes, all right. So, that's how WK came about. >> Okay. in the 60-cond elevator pitch. How do you explain wake? >> So, well, it is what a what AI knows about you, but it runs from a different uh a different uh basis to all the other AI tracking tool. The other most of the AI tracking tools out there are exactly that. They're tracking tables. You put in a prompt and it will track what comes out the answer. That's not what SEOs do, is it? I mean, that's kind of like rank trekking, you know, for AI. That's and rank checking was always a bit dodgy anyway. I mean uh because you had to guess the right keywords and stuff like that. It that's not what its prime focus is. It does do that because we've got to have the sort of hygiene elements of what the other tools have got, but its focus is um giving you a action plan of what to do next to become more visible and more accurately visible in the LLMs for any given topic. So for um for inlinks itself for example, it's an entity SEO tool. We would like it and if you go to Google and type in entity SEO tool, great. You know, it comes up. It's there. It's it's it's it's on it's on top of the list or hopefully it's top of the list. If you went to chat GPT um or Claude or Gemini and say, "What is the best entity SEO tool?" You would therefore expect inlinks to come at the top. and we found it wasn't you know so that's a very good example of saying right what is we we you know we need inlinks to be better understood around the concept of entities so we can put in the topic of entities and we can say what do you know about inlinks in the context of entities and it will come back with all that information and what we do is we build a knowledge graph of the output from the LLM prompts we map it to the knowledge graph of the content on the website and we say and and we map it to the content of the competitor's prompts and websites and we'll sit there and say you know what well in this particular case it turned out we had to write more about local entity SEO uh and what had happened in this particular case is Yex of all people uh had uh had really kind of focused on entities in the context of local SEO they moved the the whole conversation uh in in the eyes of chat GBT so we wrote two really good pieces on local entity SEO entity SEO on our own site. it changed the dial and now we do very well within uh within the LLMs for you know what is the best local entity SEO tool and so it's not something we would have noticed if we hadn't used the tool we wouldn't have realized that we were under reppresented in local SEO it just wasn't on our radar as a even though inlinks as a tool has a local SEO technology within it but uh you know so you can apply that to any industry any idea we've got one coming out I think on sort of a a a sort of a proposed idea for sort of L'Oreal with the mascara coming out on ranking a little bit where it's kind of like saying you know these are the things that L'Oreal needs to do differently if it wants to become more representative have a larger share of model which is kind of the phraseiology that that that we seem to be using. Um, you know, when people start asking about mascara, who are they going to recommend? Is it going to be Max Factor or is it going to be L'Oreal or is it going to be Clinique or whatever it may be? And the game is to try and get your brand more mentioned in those results. What I think the other tools do, sorry, I can shut up if you like and let you talk. What I think the other tools do is they they they try and track clicks from from these results or how high up or whether your website is listed as a cited resource and all of those things. We do all of that, but I don't think that's important. I think what's important is the LLM's actual response has to sell your product for you. And if it's not doing that, it doesn't matter whether they're going to click on your website or not. It's got to sell it in the actual words that they say in their response. >> Okay. One of the things I found most useful about the uh the W tool. I'm gonna I'm gonna go with W K instead of wake instead of wake high. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We go W because it's kind of illiterative, but you know, you go where go where you want. >> One of the things I found most useful is the um citation tracking tool. So it tells uh W can tell you where a citation or where a uh block of text in the LLM's was the source material uh the page that originally found on. >> Yeah. And then and then it has a whole list of uh questions. This is what um the LLM's four LLMs uh Claude uh uh uh chat GPT Gemini and um Anthropic know about. >> They're not questions, they're facts. >> Oh, facts. Yeah. Facts. And and it you pose them almost like in in the way of questions. Is this true? Is this not true? >> Um >> yes. Yes. Yeah. So what we do is we break the responses down into one sentence facts. um so that it becomes very easy for the human to check for hallucinations. Yeah. >> So when the hallucination's found, one of the ways I've been selling use of the WK tool is I know where the hallucination or where the misfact has been found. It's being apparently being quoted over and over again. While we can't guarantee that the LLM will actually understand we've made this change, it stands to reason if we go back to the original source, make the change, then yeah, >> over time the LLM will correct themselves. Is that your assumption as well? >> Yeah, that's that's that's that's the theory. I mean, if if they've got something wrong in the facts, then they should have cited the source that they that they that they got that information from. Now, it's not guaranteed. Of course, some of the engines are better at citing sources than than others. But essentially, if there's a prompt come back and then we list all of the sources that have been cited, the problem is likely to have come from one of those pages. So, one of the things that we found for ourselves, for example, is that somebody had done a review of our product and they'd included a feature that we actually don't do and and we uh and it said that we did do it. Now, we could have just left that, but in our experience, telling an LLM something that isn't true doesn't work for very long. It's going to really mess your brand up. So, we went back to the guy that did the review. Um, and it was so much easier than getting a link from them, you know, telling them that there was a factual error on the website. Change just like that. Just had to change. Uh, so it's a it's a it's a much better process than link building. You don't need to ask for for links. Uh, you just need to make sure that people are factually correct. And if they're not factually correct, they seem to be more willing to change it. Of course, if it's a problem on your own website, then a you shouldn't have had it anyway, but b change it. >> Okay, so I'm looking at at my copy of W. And um Okay, just just for the listeners, um so you know, via LinkedIn, Dixon contacted me about six weeks ago and said, "Hey, throw your email address in. I'll give you a free version." I actually tried to do that and somehow screwed up and ended up buying a paid version along the way, and I'm really glad I did. >> Oh, thanks, Jim. >> Oh, yeah. Hey, no worries, man. Thanks for thanks for the tip off. Um, and I didn't get back to him right away. Um, normally I get immediately I get back to the I would get back to you immediately and let's schedule an interview. But I wanted to use the tool for a little while, get through it, get used to it, really understand the environment. >> And so I'm looking at at one of my clients. We're not I'm not going to mention the name of the clients, but I'm looking at their their screen. And um first screen brand overview or website overview tells me I'm ahead of the competition in again sonar uh which is perplexity chat GPT uh Gemini or Google and uh Claude or Anthropic. >> Yeah, >> I'm ahead of my competition. What what does that mean? >> What does that mean? Okay, so on the brand overview reports um what we do what we did to get there so so for the listeners in order to set up a project you need to apply exactly two competitors. So you got to put in your own website and two competing brands websites and uh it builds a knowledge graph of your own website and of your two competitors websites and uh so so when it says uh and then then it says what do you know about um this website and that we just go and ask that question for for five um LLMs well two two on Google and four others uh and then uh and then for two competitors as well. So 15 lookups and we say what do you know about your brand? What do you know about this competitor? What do you know about this competitor? And let the LLM just regurgitate as it does come out with all of their stuff. But what we can do with that stuff is we can also build a knowledge graph of that response. So now we have two knowledge graphs which in a perfect world would be exactly the same because what you think your brand is about on your website and what the LLM thinks your brand is about should be exactly the same topics. Of course it isn't. But the question is, is the LLM properly representing your brand in the system? So the number between zero and 100 that comes out is trying to show you how accurately the LLM has represented your brand. And so those numbers combined then are saying your numbers are higher than your competitors. So currently you're you're better understood or more accurately understood than your competitors a as of today's date. But those reports can then be repeated weekly, monthly, daily, whatever it may be if you want to and you can start to build up a picture over time because the real value I think comes into the topic reports and the action plans in the topic reports which tells you what to do to get better. Um, and uh, that's not in the brand overview report, but if you've got a topic report there, then you know, click on the the action plan button and that's where the magic happens. >> Sorry listeners. >> In fact, I do have a topic report here and they do have action plans. I'm not going to again there's a >> Yeah. >> Um, there's only so much I can go into looking at uh, a client's reports and stuff, >> of course. Yeah. Yeah. But it's insightful. It's it should be insightful. the in the action plan report really goes into uh it's it's do you remember the audit SEO audit days where people you know we used to do 100page audits for clients and we gave it to them and they never did anything and six months later we'd say well that's your fault you didn't apply anything and stuff you know that's more fallout I suppose but you know the reports these days that we're generating are literally you know when it comes to the recommendations in the report it's six sentences and it's like do this do this, do this, do this, and things will happen. And uh and we find these really interesting cuz they we're finding the clients can read those recommendations and go, "That's a good idea." And and you just see the client's eyes light up most of the time. Uh and uh and so so that's kind of the uh the winning formula really for WK and why it's not like the other AI tracking tools. >> Yeah, >> it's proactive. >> To give listeners a uh just a really quick uh visual u mental mental picture, um my reports screen shows a number of topics that are either represented or under represented on my client's pages. um and gives me suggestions on >> I don't want to say keywords exactly because they're not keywords, they're more like ideas, entities, topics that we should uh write on more and um you know flesh out flesh out uh more information on assumably this is what Gemini or Claude or Chacht is underfed in these areas. >> Absolutely. Yeah. So I just did a a demo with somebody on Adidas as an example. So you know uh and uh Adidas and Nike and Reebok seems to be quite a popular thing in my demos at the moment. I mean I let the guy I let the customer guide me but you know we looked at Adidas and then we looked at the topic of marathons you know with the the theory being that you know Adidas wants to improve their their market share in the marathon market you know and what the report comes out with in that particular case is well you know what you haven't got is you've got an app that's great but your app doesn't have anything tailored to uh marathon runners um or you know so that you know that that sort of thing that kind of level of detail comes out. So, talk about how you can use the app for marathon training or uh talk about the carbon fiber. Apparently, they got some carbon fiber things that are good for marathon training or something like that. Uh, you know, but they weren't really sort of talking about that and so so so talking change talking about the structure of having a section on marathon planning and a and a map a a a diary of all the uh of all the marathons in the world. You know, these are things that will get a marathon runner buying into Adidas, not just once, but you know, for for a lifetime. >> Now, this is interesting. And by by the way, for the North American year, Adidas is Adidas. Um >> Oh, sorry. >> No, no worries. No worries. But the interesting thing I found here is um Adidas is a one of the largest footwear corporations in the world. They've done ample market research. They understand their audience. They understand how they're their customers and how their customers use their product and they were missing this big section on their website that they could have been writing about but hadn't and they're missing a large and growing market. Would that be correct? >> Yeah. I mean I mean I I mean in that in that example we we chose the active decision to say we want to push ourselves more into the marathon market, you know. So so there a human in the loop decided marathons are where we're going to go next. you know they could have gone for tennis or they could you know or you know but that was an an active decision um at which point we have to understand or we have to look at as as a as SEOs our job is to learn what's changed I mean it's all very well to say SEO is exactly the same with AI and and stuff but the truth of the matter is that uh when you think about the user journey the user is no longer having to come to your website at All particularly with Adidas, you know what they're doing is they're starting with their research and saying, "I want to do some the London marathon. What kind of trainer should I wear?" That's the kind of thing they're asking the chat GPT. They're not going to bother necessarily going to Nike or Reebok or whatever. What they're going to get back is here's a here is a bunch of brands. These ones are good for this kind of thing. This one's good if you're, you know, if you're woman. This one's good if you're doing, you know, if you're in New York or in a hot temperature or whatever it may be. Uh, and then you'll dive in and carry on asking the LLM. The LLM is going to go off and do the research on those websites. So now your content on your website has to communicate as much and soon even more to the LLM interpreting it so that the LM LLM can take it back and compare it with the other competitors and digest that information for the user. At the end of their research, the user is not going to click on any of those sites sources. They're going to go and buy Adidas or Nike. That's all they're going to do. They're going to go straight from there to the shop and buy their shoes. So, the idea of tracking and saying, "I want to get more traffic from LLMs," is absurd. You actually want to get less traffic from LLMs. You want to get more share of model. You want to get more mind share from the responses that the LLMs give. And in order to do that, you've got to make sure your content is well understood by the LLMs and covers everything that the uh that the competitor is that that the user is going to want. >> That's it really. When we >> there ain't no traffic. >> So you're you're you're suggesting um that a lot of the that a lot of uh what was previously e-commerce is going to get um uh converted in the shops again. um people are going to go to the stores rather than purchase online um for certain name brands. I mean not necessarily but but I so the example I've been citing on you know talks and things is this that uh this behind me uh there's a there's this big gaming computer behind me now >> and I've got that specifically cuz I wanted to buy a computer that was powerful enough to download LLM local an LLM or more one or more local LLMs locally onto machine to run them on my own machine so I wasn't hampered by GDPR and sending information off to third parties potentially for confidential information. I wanted to be able to analyze it locally and I needed a computer that could do that. I have no idea about what kind of spec that has to be. Perfect question for asking chat GPT or Gemini. So I asked them uh you know what's the perfect spec for a uh for a machine that will do this. It comes out with apparently I need a big GPU. I mean, you know, okay, mine's bigger than yours. I needed all these bits and pieces. Comes out with an ideal spec. The next thing I do is use a different LLM uh to say, "Right, can you go and find the one on Amazon that's closest to that?" Now, I could have done that. What's the closest one on Walmart or or whatever, you know, or I could could have chosen anywhere I want to buy my PC, but I want the one that's got that particular spec. Um, and so I I got the got the spec. I got saw saw one on there. I then checked the spec in another LLM as a guardrail in case I had gone wrong because I still didn't know it was going to be an expensive purchase. Uh, and then I bought the machine on Amazon. It was only after I bought the machine that I realized I had not gone to the website. I did not know the brand. The brand is called Ginger 6, by the way. Uh, I mean, not exactly HP. Uh, and the the Amazon site didn't even have any reviews. No one had bought that spec or no one had done a review on that spec because it was such an unusual spec. So, uh, of all the normal sort of EAT kind of things, authority and trust and trusting reviews and all, they'd all gone out the window. I'd assumed that that had all been sorted by the LLMs, perhaps naively. Anyway, it runs the LLM's fine. So, it was great. Uh, and uh, and it's done the job, but I didn't click on the website. I didn't know the brand. I bought entirely on the spec from the LLM working out the underlying method spec that I needed. Um so and I think that's just going to happen more and more. So yeah, you could still buy online but you know uh the decision is made largely at the text in that prompt output. You know they're creating tables for us and stuff that's very useful. Very useful. I I asked that question in that way because I think a lot of uh SEOs are really concerned about conversion metrics about success metrics uh what do our clients consider uh success >> and um many of us represent online stores uh uh stores that don't necessarily have brickandmortar equivalents um and so there's a great I mean obviously there's a great worry we can't drive traffic directly back to our client sites and our clients probably don't need us so much anymore. You told an interesting almost counterintuitive story though where um a non-brand manufacturer managed to slip their information into the uh LLM stream um or at least into the into the generative generative response that you received and you and you got their product have again having researched the specs and making sure that >> the output from one LLM checked out on one or two others. >> Yeah. Because what I what I did in that example is I I was brand agnostic. I was looking for a spec. That's what I needed. And I needed something that was going to do some very unusual things for most people. You know, most people don't have to have, you know, llama on them on their computer. Uh but um so so that spec had now made a ideal thing that not very many people probably make. you know, there's not very many people that will plug that GPU into that kind of motherboard and that kind of thing. They're probably there's probably, you know, I'm sure Nvidia will will will tell you plenty of people that that that do this. But um I had I had now defined exactly what I wanted and there were very few of these things in the world, you know, because I'd thought about the product first or the the the tech first rather than the brand that that it's associated with. And so yeah, slipped it slipped in. They got in there. Um and uh I think that's that's the win for for small brands. If you properly define who you truly are, what makes you unique, uh, and where you do stand out, then that's where you'll get your business. If customer service is a thing, if we're going to deliver it with a with a smile and a kiss, then fine, you know, as long as people want it with a smile and a kiss, that's what you deliver, you know. Um, be different, but be clear about that difference. Um, and and you and and Chad GPT will get there. Um, >> I got a couple more questions. We're we're definitely definitely pushing boundaries of time here, but um, >> what about publishers? Um, the helpful content update starting in like, you know, September 20 2023, um, just took the rug out from a lot of, uh, web businesses that were, you know, basically, uh, small to medium-siz publishers, um, that had, you know, sprouted up in the last 10 to 15 years. >> Yeah. moving forward in the um LLM based uh response world. Is there a lot of hope for these folks? Um if they can define themselves and their offer I I I I it's hard for for publishers. Let's not deny it. I think it's going to be a difficult um a difficult sell for them. What I would be doing if I was in that world full-time, you know, I have, for example, so I've published a book. You can't get the book unless you buy well actually you can. I've got it on a free PDF now. If you're if you're selling a book, you're still selling a book. It's that you can turn your publishing into a hard copy, people still want hard copy books. So, uh so if you can turn your content into something that's behind a payw wall, then I think that's where your win has to be. You've got to actually have content that's good enough for people to pay for. Uh and and so that could be courses. Uh that could be uh books, stories that are that you have to buy the book for. It could be that you know chapter one is is free and then chapters chapters you know two to 10 you got to go and pay for uh but I think they need to move towards a a money a monetized model that's much more directly based around charging for the content. There is of course also this thing that Cloudflare are doing which is starting a bidding platform which I don't know if it's going to work where you allow as a publisher that Cloudflare will block anything that uh any LLM that tries to take that look at that content unless that LLM pays you three p a p 3 cents a page or whatever your number is you know so it'll be interesting to see whether that that gets traction. I think that publishers should probably try it. If they want to stay with the uh the I want to put everything on my website and only humans that come to my website so I can get advertising revenue, you know, uh they're going to have to use that kind of um model. Um but I don't think that'll win the day. I think that's as much marketing hype as anything for Cloudflare. Um, but I might be entirely wrong there. It may be a savior for publishers. For me, I would go for monetizing my content. >> No, I' I'd imagine every other content delivery network out there also has to adopt Cloudfare's policies, and it would have to be United Front if that's going to >> succeed in the long run. And also, I mean, I'm I'm worried about opting out of LLMs from my clients on CloudFare. I'm I'm terrified about that. Um, I can't see >> good >> many circumstances under which I would I would close them off. Um, >> unless unless specifically ordered to, which I would advise against. Um, >> yeah. I I mean, if they're going to hire an SEO, then probably SEO now 101 is make sure the crawlers can crawl with the content >> as as much as uh technically possible. Absolutely. Okay, couple more a couple more questions. I kind of wanted to get at early, but you know the conversations all No, I hate conversations with you always take fun trails. >> Um, >> you have a front row seat in I guess the um efficacy of LLMs and how they understand content and understand the web. >> Um, how hallucinations is is probably the greatest concern about LLM output. How often do they hallucinate? Um it's it's got a lot better in the last in the last six months. Um so when we launched WK back in March, um there was hallucinations left, right, and center and I'm definitely seeing less of them now. Um maybe I'm not looking so much. I know that the product works and stuff, but I think they have got better. Um, but there's there's a real tendency for it. It depends on what is being asked, you know, when when we're looking at it from a brand's lens, but uh but I think they still will make fundamental errors when you start to um ask uh sort of generic questions. Um but but they are they are improving. Um, but in a brand sense, the real problem is when you're using generic names in your in your brand. So, I think Walmart is much safer than um uh than be than diy.com, you know. So, DIY.com is is is a is is a gen diy being a generic term, you know, if your brand is DIY, then that that becomes a challenge. Uh so I think um so majestic for example has a challenge because majestic as a word is can be related to theaters, it can be related to restaurants, it can be related to you know uh the search engine. So you know so there's much more likelihood for an LLM to go wrong. What I think has happened over the last six months is that because they're all really using rag now um and sort of search lookups, they're they're they're honing in uh and uh and less likely to get something wrong because they're they're using a search engine to back up the results. But that's a failing in itself of an LLM, isn't it? you know, if it needs a search engine, an old old school search engine to correct itself then or to get up-to-date information, then that then that's a challenge. But they're consistently working uh and improving. The hallucinations are getting less. They still have trouble telling you how many bees are in Babage or something. You know, >> in the next week or two, we're going to start encountering stories about the burst of the AI bubble. uh defin definite fears from investors and from uh businesses and and consumers that uh this >> which is a pity because no one actually gave me any money. So you know but then again >> is is there an AI bubble? AI is being added to everything often um more as a marketing uh uh ploy that ploy than a uh than an actual useful feature. Um is there a bubble and is that bubble gonna burst and does that worry you? Uh yes there is a bubble uh yes it will burst but it's not something that we haven't seen before especially you and me you know uh going back to uh the the internet bubble in it in its early days uh I remember uh I don't know if you remember bu.com bo >> the fashion >> uh and for me in the UK anyway when bu.com went bankrupt that was the sign of the bubble bursting, you know. So, it was a they were a fashion brand uh and uh and they were relatively high-tech in that they were using a flash website. Obviously, a disaster for uh for for um uh for SEO, but at the time uh but um when they went bust, a lot of things just went bust because they were building out all of these things and not actually looking at the bottom line of profit. What I think was interesting about the docu.com bubble when it burst, uh, I was making a living at the time running murder mystery evenings online. So, I was basically selling my own murder mysteries. So, talking about publishers and content, I was selling my content back then. I, you know, you couldn't get my murder mystery unless you paid 30 bucks for the murder mystery. So uh um so when it went bust when the the bubble went bust it didn't stop the internet did it that carried on going fine. I hadn't borrowed lots of money. I my business carried on fine. I you know it didn't affect me because I was already profitable. Uh and um and I had a positive cash flow. What will happen is that there will be people that have built technologies based on some of the LLMs that will not succeed. Presumably, you can't have all of those different LLM systems succeeding uh and some will some will will will fail. And as a knock-on effect, some of those technologies will fail, but it's not very difficult for those technologies to move over to a different LLM provider. the API system is so much more advanced than it was before that we can just swap out Deep Seek for, you know, for Llama 3.2 or whatever it may be. Uh, and uh, so I think that um, the bubble will burst. I think that for most of us, we'll just we'll just move on to a different LLM and eventually like Google, one will one will win one will win that battle. I'm hoping that it takes a while for one to win the battle because it was so much more fun back in 2000 when we were doing SEO for Liyos and Alto Vistra and Infosek and all these other different pieces uh um and all these different tools. But uh but we we've we've decided in W to just track five models instead of 50 models because we think there's going to be such a fallout very quickly that tracking 50 models will end up having to pay for API calls to 50 models. That's just wasted money. So we're just going with the biggies. >> Okay. So we got to get out of here. We've we've been I've kept up for almost an hour in uh in real time. Um 45 minutes in interview time. Um, >> how do people engage with WK? Um, is there an introductory offer for them? And uh >> there is there's a free they can try for free. So, uh, so it's a bit hard to find on the homepage of the website, but if you go to W. So, W is w a k a y what AI knows about you.iofree and you can sign up for a free account there. that will give you three credits which will give you enough to build a brand report, a topic report and an action plan and see one prompt, you know, so it gets you off the ground and running. You you'll you'll be able to see the product and decide whether you want to uh to to run with it. Um but the the paid plans right now, we still have an early early adopter pricing on there. So on the homepage you can see a a pricing that's $20 which which will give you enough to run your website you know a reasonable a reasonably you know a a small person's brand would would work fine on $20 a month. Um but which is a fraction of what the competitors are charging. You know most of the competitors are coming in well you know most of them are coming in $199 upwards really but uh you know so getting in at $20 is is great. You may have to find you may find as you use it, you're going to have to buy more credits or move up. But we do have this policy of making it easy for small consultants, small smaller businesses to use the all of the features and just pay as you go, you know. So so the $20 is may not be the last thing you do, but at least you can just buy credits instead of upping your plan. >> You know, I got one last question. AIS tend to work on credits. Is the monthly subscription plan over like in the long run? Like for for for for people thinking of bu building tools in the future, is monthly subscription over and is things going to be built on credits in the future? >> I don't know. I mean, we definitely went different with WK than we did with inlinks. I mean, one of the reasons we broke into a different completely different product is because the pricing wasn't going to work. We had to charge on credits uh and uh and and in links is based on how many pages you put in the system. So, so we it just made more sense to have one small subscription and then yes, you can have a larger subscription and add-ons and things. So, basically after that, pay as you go. It seems like a logical model to go with. Um, and I I it depends where you are in the world. I think I think a larger organization would would prefer to have a just give me one price and I know where I am with it and it's you know it's happening every month or or whatever or pay a year in advance or whatever it's going to be. I think that um that as as people get more sensitive to money, and I think they are at the moment, uh then yeah, these this ability to go up and go down based on how much customers you've got, you know, that month or how much demand you've got for it that month, I think that's that's fair and reasonable. And the SAS model tried to tried to uh tried to get people out of that, but it's going to come back to it. Yeah. Eventually, everything does get productized. So, you know, >> see, this is one of the neat things about talking to you. Tangents happen and they're fun. >> I'm so sorry. I should just >> No, that's my fault. I asked you the question but >> I asked you the question, but you sort of put that signpost up there and it was just too too tempting not to take. >> You're going to have to edit this right down. again as a function of studio. Dixon Jones, CEO of WK. Are you still CEO of Inlinks as well? >> Yes. Yeah. Same limited organization. I should probably if we can grow a little bit, I should probably make sure that we got a head of each department and start to do that. But, you know, if we can just get your customers to all of your listeners to come and buy $20 each, then you know, maybe we can get there. Well, everybody do Dixon a favor. Help him departmentalize his companies. >> Get that be great. >> Jump in right now. Wayk.io. Dixon Jones, thank you so much for your time today in Web Cally. >> Jim, thanks. [Music]