# Dixon Jones — YouTube Transcript 1

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d2GOdv4N4xs
**Channel:** Dixon Jones / InLinks
**Date Collected:** April 29, 2026

## Transcript

Google training data API lookup costs nothing compared to a Google rag you know grounded data lookup so it's much more expensive to do it's much more resource expensive and and pounds and dollars and cents expensive as well so if they can a if they can the more they know from the training data the long term the the the cheaper the product is for them to supply. So it makes sense for them to start learning from where they had holes before. [Music] Basically, I'm very excited, listeners. We have a a very special guest, but I I have to give you a word of caution. I don't think you're going to get any not anything. You won't get as much out of this unless you actually go to our YouTube channel and and look at his presentation, his product. I'm very excited about the future. Uh we're in a world of possibly transitioning from SEO to what we call AEO, which is artificial intelligence uh engine optimization. So, I'm just going to get right into in uh into the introduction here and uh and uh tell you a little bit about our guests. So again, I'm excited and honored to introduce Dixon Jones. He's the CEO and co-founder of Inlinks, an award-winning SEO software company recognized for its innovative use of entitybased optimization and natural language processing. Dixon is a leading figure in the internet marketing and SEO community. Oh, let me stop you there. Let me stop you there. It's a lovely way to introduce me, but I uh I I I'm I fine. I uh I used to run Majestic as I used to marketing director of majestic.com. Uh I've been in the industry for 30 years. And let's not bore everybody with all the details. I appreciate everything. But us nerds us nerds will will certainly appreciate this. So, I'm gonna I'm gonna just continue here despite I appreciate appreciate your humbleness, but this is these are some serious creds. So, um now I'll explain this to my wife and she'll roll her eyes, but but everybody else that knows that's in the know in the community, it's like they say, when you know, you know. Uh they need to kind of hear your your your uh your accomplishments because it's I think it's really important. So, um, he's he's received numerous accolades, including lifetime achievement award in search and has been named search personality of the year and an outstanding technology individual of the year. Throughout his career, Dixon has founded several successful ventures, including uh, Initiative Unlimited in 1989 and Receptional Limited in 1999. one of the UK's first search consultancies, he played a pivotal role as marketing director and later global brand ambassador at majestic.com also majesticseo.com, where he helped the company earned two Queens awards for innovation and export. He's also been involved in DHJ Ventures and serves on the board of Zen Intelligence. Dixon is a regular keynote speaker, and this is where we get nerdy, at major industry events like Brighton SEO, Pubcon, SCES, and SMX, and is widely recognized for advancing the understanding of entity SEO and search marketing. Most recently, and this is really important, Dixon has launched W, short for what AI knows about you. A groundbreaking tool from inlinks that reveals how major AI models like chat GBT, Gemini, Claude, and Perplexity perceive and represent your brand. WK enables businesses to analyze their brand's AI footprint. Fact check AI generated information and benchmark their reputation against competitors, helping brands proactively manage their digital presence in the age of AIdriven search. Again, I'm very excited and uh Dixon, if we could just jump into uh your product and u we can show everybody that's involved in SEO how how you're innovating and breaking new uh territory here. Thank ever so much for the um the introductions, Bob. Uh honestly, that just went on for I'm I'm getting old really, but the Queen's Awards, I mean, I know you guys are in the States and I'm in the UK, but uh that meant I got to go and see the Queen at Buckingham Palace twice. So those ones I I care care, you know, they they they were they were probably probably the highlight and uh and I I didn't do that all on my own. So um but thanks for the introductions. Uh and yeah, I'll just dive into WK. I'll try not to spend too long on WK guides and we can talk about it and have questions afterwards. Um and uh yeah, as you say, it stands for what AI knows about you. The reason that we built it is because um we were looking at uh the various there's not that many tools yet that are properly trying to help us to influence uh SEO uh SEO if you like within uh LLM within Chat GPT within Gemini within Claude etc. Um and the ones that are there seem to be thinking about it in a way that isn't going to scale. it's kind of trying to trying to take rank checking and just dump it into uh into um AI tracking. Uh and we found that that didn't work. So we've come up with a different approach which really looks at the way in which the LLMs are looking at knowledge and so we're looking at yeah what AI knows about you where AI is getting that knowledge. um can you fact check that that knowledge and and then you know how can you uh fill in the gaps and the knowledge and and influence the the knowledge graph or the the information eventually. So uh there is by the way a free account so you can you can get a free free version if you go to slashfree but it's at wake.io io impossible to pronounce, impossible to spell, uh, and impossible to see it because it's not even the com domain. But the fact that it's, you know, stands for what AI knows about you means that you can kind of get there pretty pretty quickly. Um, and what I was going to do was jump in and just do intri uh as as a as a project. And I've just I did it a little bit before. So if it if it goes wrong, then I I'm going to uh go back to this one. But let's go and uh try it with with Intri. And uh uh uh and what we're going to do with any um uh uh with any brand, what we're trying to do is um is is that spelled right? No, it's not. Yeah, it's a little different. Yeah, intrigue. I got it wrong. Sorry. Speaking of speaking of pronouncing pronouncing words and names, it's like that if W is bad, this is this is 3x. It's very difficult for people. Fair enough. Okay. So, so, so I've got it right now. Uh, so, so you got to choose a market because we do a bunch of Google search lookups and things and you can't do that without specifying a market, but that's fine. You're in the United States, so we know it's fine. So what we what we're trying to do is find out what all the AI knows about intri in in context to your competitors. So we do need to choose a couple of competitors. These ones look a little bit too generic. So I was uh going to go with um uh was it woolly mammoth.com or have you got a couple of couple of locals that you uh that you might want to compete with? um not offhand and maybe that's because I uh I stick my head in the the sand too much but um so I'll tell I'll tell you let me just dive back in just for the sake of time here. So so uh you choose two and then you build a project but I've built the project anyway um and I chose the mightymo.com and woolly mammothdesign.com. So they're both say that they're based in uh in in Minnesota. So uh so I pulled those out. So uh so so the first thing that the system does is it asks Sonar ChatgBT Gemini and Claude what do you know about intri.com? What do you know about woollymouth.com and uh we build a knowledge graph of concepts that are on your website. So we've crawled your website and we've crawled the other two websites as well and we've understood all the underlying concepts that those websites are talking about. We then have asked the LLMs what do they think the website is about. So now we've got two data sets of information because we pull those down into the underlying uh we call them entities but topics is a better word really uh of of ideas. Um and so we've got this map of things that you've talked about on your website and the the um things that the LLM has said you you're about. So if we have a look at something with zero on here. So I've got to explain TD and G gr. So training data, TD stands for training data and GR stands for grounded data. So uh anybody that's been playing with uh with with AI um if you're using Google Gemini, then the chances are you're using it in AI overviews on Google. And so what it's doing is it's blending uh a pro a pure LLM with training data that it got from a long time ago potentially and blending it with rag retrieve basic search results. So it's finding finding it's using the training data to get some information about where they need to look and then it's getting search results to help augment that data on the fly. Not everything does does use um training data or grounded data. So grounded data means it's got a search lookup. So that's why all three of you have got zeros when it comes to Google Gemini uh as a score. And if I click on it, you can see the actual response. It said, "I do not have access to real-time information." That's because it can't do a search lookup, including websites like Intri. So it doesn't know that much about you. So it's given a score of zero for you and your competitors. But in the real life situation, Gemini is very good at pulling in its own search results, at which point you do great. And if I click on here, it says some interesting stuff. It says you're a digital design company. Uh it's got a whole bunch of different things here about who you are, etc. And all that is is put in. Now we know that you're that it's got quite a lot of information about you. Um what's interesting, what I found quite interesting in here is uh that uh um you've got some a bunch of facts here. And oh, okay, this I saw earlier on something about Sweden. So, one of the search engines is is fi is finding you and thinking you're a Swedish company. Uh, I can't find out which one it was now. Yes, here we go. So, chat GPT has said in links is a Swedish digital marketing agency specializing in SEO services. This is interesting and I think shows exactly why companies need to pay attention to this stuff now because the machines are hallucinating and they're getting things wrong and um and to say that Intrix is a Swedish digital marketing agency is clearly incorrect. You just got to look at the website and that's not correct. So, one of the things that um we do at WK is make it very very easy for you to start checking all the facts that are spouted out by all of the um AI systems. By the way, you're not alone. Inlinks, by the way, it said inlinks was a rank checking service and we're not. Um, and uh I did uh did one on Majestic and it said Majestica was dissolved in 2021 and that's because a UK company called Majestic Wine had dissolved and it and it got confused. So this factchecking uh of of of AI is an important thing for brands and the bigger the brand the more important it is but even small brands should be checking this stuff. And so what we've done is we've turned all of the output from uh from from asking the LLMs in things and turned them into individual facts that you can very quickly go and see. Right? Intrix is a digital marketing agency and website specializing in SEO. Check. That's fine. Fine. Off the list. That's great. Vast majority of these is going to be fine, but occasionally you get something that's that's incorrect like the Swedish digital marketing company and Flat GPT saying it's wrong. So we can flag that. So you can easily flag ideas. Um and now these reports the idea is that you run them um over time. So you can uh run them monthly or weekly or daily or whatever. Um so when you do run them again then we'll anything you haven't flagged will just wipe because otherwise it just becomes too much information. But uh but the the the factchecking is the first important thing. The second important thing is these numbers. These numbers give you an idea of how accurate the information is in different search engines um both for you and for your competitors. So now we've got some concept of competing brands. Um we we can also uh all of these all of these things kind of come back with a bunch of um sources. So for example, there wasn't one in here but uh let's go to sonar. So here they're saying all of the all the URLs that they're seeing in this response um that they're citing as uh as relevant. So we can uh then have a look at all of the pages that that that are on your in your reports and they're not just necessarily your own website. There might be other websites as well, but we can check to make sure that they're all there. They're actually redirecting with 301 redirects, which some of your users might may not know. I don't know if they know about 301s or not, but let's say they do, I'm assuming. But if there's 404s in there, then that's a clear signal that you got to change anything. Um, and uh, and and again with your competitors here, we can go and start seeing which pages are mentioned in competitors um, citations. So, for example, we've got Capterara here with Willoolly Mammoth Design mentioned in on Capterara.com. That's a signal that says "Hey well um, the the LLM are using this Capterra stuff. That's very easy. You could go and get yourself on Capterra. Um, and maybe you can also next time be seen as a uh as and use that to uh to get mentioned. So, you can start to see some places where you can get your stuff talked about to interrupt the LLMs for next time. Yeah, that's that's crazy. So, it's cool. So uh now this topic stuff I'm going to move move on from because I it's gets a lot more interesting when I start to create a report around a concept. So right now that was a brand overview report which you could get for free actually you can just sign up and get a free one. But where it's really gets interesting I think and now I'm working in real time here is when we start to say right what do we want to be better at? So you know this is kind of like you know if you think about keyword you know getting to number one for a particular search phrase in SEO what you really want is when when you ask the LLM's you know what's the best search engine optimization company or web design company then you want you know intrig of the thing which I think is you know some years off because we needed to learn a lot about how LLMs are working but if I choose web design it'll create a report saying okay what does intric and those two competitors. What what do the LLM know about Intrex in the context of web design? So now we're not just looking at your brand. We're looking at something much more contextually accurate or something much more of a business focus. Um does that make sense? It does. It does. Yeah. Great. Okay. So again, we're uh we're going out asking them to to um to give their responses and we'll have a similar looking screen at the start, but some my extra stuff is going to turn up, which is going to be very very important. Um at the same time, we're um augmenting the knowledge graph that we've already built about your website. So any web pages that we've seen in other reports, we'll go and crawl those in the background and make sure we understand those so we have a better view of you um as as we go on. So the more reporting you do, the more accurate we have an understanding of your actual um actual focus. So while that's going, let me show you this mention thing as well. Um because this mention thing, all of the uh all of the um URLs that have been mentioned so far um in those those lookups that we've already done and now mentioned here. So this is a good way to go and see, you know, the the cap errors and stuff like that. And you can break it down by domain. You can say look uh that's interesting. Um other domains WPA engine has been WordPress.org has been mentioned a couple of times. You can see the mighty Mo is on has got a profile on WordPress.org. That might be an interesting thing if you're a WordPress shop. Um other domains here you get to see the capture stuff but now you start to also get an idea of market share from these numbers. Um market share in the context of LLMs. So LLMs are mentioning you 18 times, Willie Mammoth 13 times, Mighty Mo eight times. That to me is not a bad um representation of how well you're relatively represented in the in the uh in the LLMs. Um so right, so now we've done this uh this web design again. We got scores now. Scores scores we can dive into. And uh one of the interesting things now is that I don't know if you saw on the last one. I went quite quickly, but the Mighty Mo wasn't understood in chat GPT um for its brand and and they they had a zero and they also had a zero for Woolly Mammoth Design, I think. But in the context of web design, the LLMs now understand which which Mighty Mo they're talking about and which woolly mammoth they're talking about. They're not talking about just general woolly mammoths. They're talking about this one. So, they get a m a much better idea of these businesses in the context of the products they're selling. And that's natural, right? You know, hopefully if we did uh did, you know, what's intriicks.com in the context of London, you wouldn't do so well. But, uh but because it's in the context of web design, it's got a pretty good result. Again, not in the original training data from from from Gemini, but 82 out of 100. That's a pretty good uh score. So, we know we know what it does. Um uh and and we know and did you uh did you take over Fargo web design company at some point or is that an SEO page? There we go. So, uh so we we can we can see bunch of facts here um which uh which hopefully are right, but you can flag them again if they're wrong. So, but the the great thing here, and I'll stop talking in just a second once I've shown you this button here. This button here is the action plan. And this action plan, I think, is where we really can um start the process of actually optimizing within LLMs. So, what this is doing is recommending things like topic gaps. And what it's doing is some really fine-tuned ideas for how you might be better represented within the context of of web design. And the report is not that long. This is a report. That's a whole lot. That's that that's it. And they're really strong bullet points. So firstly, if we go to strengths, then we've got intri is a strong location-based SEO and web design. Uh has you have strong location-based SEO and web design pages. Um, you've got multiple city specific pages like Fargo. You've got diverse service offerings, technical SEO content, etc. So, these are your strengths. This is Mighty Moe's strengths. They got a good C portfolio and showcase selection section. Uh, and then uh um Willy Mammoth, a really good about section so we can understand where they came from, etc. But now we get on to the content gaps and we can see a bunch of structural gaps, thematic gaps, what we consider critical content gaps and then significant content gaps and then un under mentioned um topics. And these I think are really interesting. But we can tighten these down even more and go to recommendations. And this comes to six things that our tool says that the LLMs think is you you would need to get better represented in LLMs for the context of web design. Six ideas, that's it. Six six suggestions only one sentence long each. So, for example, um uh around Minneapolis web design service, we want a uh a dedicated Minneapolis web design service page similar to your existing city pages. So, you've got city pages. They've surfaced. The Fargo one did, but for one some reason or another, the Minneapolis one didn't. Don't know if that's correct. I hope it's uh it's it's insightful. Um and then develop a comprehensive portfolio page. uh because uh because um uh Mighty Mighty Mo or whatever it was um created a has has got a good um showcase page. Um also it gets very in detail on existing pages. So on your web design page it says exi exhance that existing web design page to include detailed information about the design process including some re search method method methodology and revision policies. I'm talking very quickly. Um, and expand the current web design uh content to emphasize the approach. So, these two things, not as urgent, but we think they're interesting. And then a couple of uh structural improvements. Um, uh, a bit more clarity in uh in your packages and offerings and then integrate some case studies into the service pages. So, these are not a large number of things, but I think that they're pretty um powerful. And then we reduce that even more into here recommended steps. Do this, do that, and do that. And then if you wanted to go and also get the uh chances to get listed, then go and have a look at getting yourself into WP Engine's, you know, comp agency directory or something as well. So, uh that is it in a nutshell. Did it make sense? And was that interesting? Oh, very interesting. I mean it it uh you know I think we're going to talk a bit here about where where things are going uh in terms of search and search engines and um how that transition is taking place what the timeline is for that that transition that one of the questions I have is is you know what level brand or what how relevant is this to let's say local uh let's say the plumber or the or the bakery or whatever the case is versus larger entities. Yeah, I think if you've got content uh and competitors and you're proud of your business, then it then it's useful. I mean, this thing only costs, you know, $20 a year. So, it's not as if we're, you know, spending a uh sorry, $20 a month, you know, or starts at $20 a month, you know, and that's um okay, that's, you know, only eight reports a month, but you know, a small business can do, you know, you know, they they sell bread and they sell cakes. They want to do that report every every 3 weeks or so, you know, well, every month. So, uh and then then see their brand. But what you you you definitely want to know if the if the LLMs are hallucinating because um they can pick up data from anywhere. It's not just your website. One of the things with a big company that we found was Microsoft, for example, are blocking Gemini from crawling their content. They've made a policy decision as a company that they don't want to educate Gemini with uh and make it easy for them to to uh to to um know everything about Microsoft. The irony is that Gemini comes out with perfectly good information about Microsoft just what everybody else in the world says about them. So, uh, they may not come off better because they're no longer in control of their narrative because they've actively said, "I'm not having I'm not having Google on my, uh, on my on my site. Thank you very much." Um, and I think that that was a well-meaning decision that probably wasn't thought through uh, all all the way and and maybe something that they want to to revise. It's also a problem that Google's going to have to think about when, you know, chat GPT and Bing starts, you know, coming around Google's content as well. But if you if you can't control your narrative, then um you can expect a lot more hallucinations. Yeah. And yeah absolutely. Yeah. And you don't have to be big, do you? Uh to to to to need it. Um it it it may be that you're not looking for web design, you're looking around web design in the context of Minneapolis or something like that, you know. Uh and and so you're you're you're further refining the topic that you're actually searching about. You could have typed in any word there to build that report. Um, we we suggest entities and subjects, proper subjects that we can relate back to Wikipedia concepts for one of a better word, you know. Um, but encyclopedia ideas. I think one of the problems that SEOs naturally fall into is that and particularly small businesses may fall into is that they come up with a quite a long string of something that's very narrow and unique to them. So yeah, I ranked number one for it, but um nobody's actually necessarily typing that in. But that's what it means. You know, that's what it means. You know, you you don't necessarily want to do web design for somebody in in uh Los Angeles because uh because, you know, you would rather meet them face to face because that's what we do in Minneapolis, you know. Uh and uh uh so uh you see, I'm a man of the world. I'm a man of the world. Uh and uh uh and and so um so you don't want to have to always say Minneapolis if your only customer is supposed to be in Minneapolis. The LLM's got to understand that, you know, it's got to kind of get, you know, Minneapolis, Fargo, you know, if you know, but not Los Angeles. uh and I think that that is an interesting place for us to think you know thinking in terms of what knowledge do you want these LLMs to have and what do you not want them to have actually we've we've we've we've been playing with the idea that in the future um you our about pages may not just say what we do but they might also say what we don't do so that we can inform the LLMs to get get things clear so they and uh they can see exactly what uh what they are and aren't doing. Let me just turn that that TV behind me off. Yeah. No, that that that's interesting. And oddly enough, we do, you know, we do work in Australia, Germany, um you know, did some work in Ireland and it and it, you know, for a a Yahoo Midwesterner like it's kind of weird that we're doing you know, business all over, but I mean the All right. Yeah. I'm sitting in the middle of middle of a shy town in sh village in uh in in in in London talking to a guy in Minneapolis. It's a weird world now. It's great. Yeah. I mean, the world is is flat, so to speak, and and uh you know, we employ people all over the world, and because they're talented and um and and very good at what they do, and and I never would have thought that 30 years ago when when I started various businesses that, you know, my dad's basement that we'd be talking about, you know, these these things and and and so let's if I can bring it back to, you know, what you see the future, you know, as as I you know I did a little research on WK and and and tried to grasp as much understanding of how this is going to impact things and I'm very excited I mean today I don't think any of us are going to go out it could but I mean you know and make our fortune in a uh AEO if you will but how do you see how do you see those search engines shifting like you know Google's you know is is what the largest search engine at this point YouTube's the Yeah. And then all the large language models are are gaining traction. What what do you see going on there for a timeline and and and what do you see? Well, I think I think over the there's a large a lot of blending already. Um so so uh what happened so the history as I saw it the first time I really started paying attention to this was at a conference in Brighton only you know about about a month after chat GPT launched. What was that? Was that 22 or 23? I can't remember. Anyway, not Yeah. Not so far ago. Anyway, and it was about a month before and I was actually sitting next to John Müller in this conference and as and and this guy talked about, you know, LLMs and showed us all the output of LM. And I thought, bloody hell, that's uh that's impressive. Um, and uh, and uh, and as we were walking out, I said to John, "Well, so why don't you take those 10 blue lines and just make a story out of them and do that instead of search results with all the information, but in a story?" Uh, and he said, "Oh, I don't think that'll happen for a long, long time. I think that, you know, we're very traditional search engine stuff like look forward two years." Uh, and uh, and and and then you've got these AI overviews that are pretty much they're not taking the same tamboo lines. they're taking different different data. Um, but I think what is really interesting in in that interim is that the the chat GPT when it came out and Gemini's training data when it came out was fine as far as it went, but immediately it was static data. So the data unless it starts getting updated um only knows what it knew at the point of launch. So as soon as you change a president then you know life changes you know so so so uh that information starts to degrade in usefulness over time. Um also uh when when these systems initially came out nobody had any concept of trying to manipulate that background data. So uh so they they could take all the books in the in the British Library and photocopy them or whatever they were going to do to get their data, proprietary data, public information data, take it all and all the people that were trying to do things there were not necessarily trying to influence the the AI. So it was less likely to make hallucinate make factual errors because no one had tried to put anything in there to make it a factual error. But at the same time, it did did seem to hallucinate because it didn't understand in that training data that this was an authoritative piece of content on that subject and this one wasn't. So, it's it's going to random pages that that may or may not be appropriate um and may not be the best source of information. I think what has happened is that they're seeing that now and this is why rag retrieval augmented generative search um has has already become a big thing. So, uh, the the the LLMs would like to give you a straight answer if they could, but if they're not sure, then they've got the opportunity to go on to Bing or go on to Google or go on to Duck Duck.Go or whatever and pull back some or some search results to hone in and crawl those bits on the fly to augment the information and give me better data. That gives them uh the search engines have spent all that time working out the difference between a good page and a bad page. So they've got this kind of concept of authority in there that the LLNs don't have. So that's reduced some hallucinations, introduced some other problems along the way. Um but it's already moved very very fast. So when I went to Brighton two weeks ago and we had the the WK stand there, we just sort of launched the action plans that week. Um the stand was really really busy and they were all saying our customers are asking about AI and you know they they it's you know the problem with SEOs is you know we like we we look at bright shiny twinkly things and as soon as something new comes along everybody wants to go there you know well something new's come along we know it's fundamental we know it's going to change our our worlds in if it hasn't already it's changed you're changing your world very very quickly listener. uh and uh and um so it's it's it's what all the customers are saying they want to to focus on now you know um if we haven't fixed SEO now well it's going to change very very quickly now so let's just focus on the next thing and and and and go there because uh I I think as as human beings we are already starting a lot of us a lot of us in this industry and I I'd imagine a lot of people just just who who you know do not do any tech take tech take tech take tech take tech take tech take tech take tech take tech take tech take tech take stuff at all are starting to press things into their computers you know I saw Facebook um has come out with a llama but you can ask llama so basically if you got Facebook you can now ask llama anything in Facebook for example well that's that's an AI doing its thing so uh so this is a this is this is coming to you know a phone near you whether you like it or not and you won't even know that you've changed your habits so of course businesses need need to stay on top of this because you do not want your, you know, your bad reput you know a bad reputation to be to to be propagated. Uh the LLMs learn in a very similar way to humans in that we just listen to the wisdom of the wisdom of crowds can go terribly wrong. We all know that. uh and uh and so so uh you don't want a person who is perfectly interested in buying your product to ask a machine that in between misinterprets the product and then gives a different representation of yourself that could go terribly wrong and it's something easy to track right now and oftentimes it's easy to fix right now I said that in llinks was seen as a rank tracking service we track that back to the original LLM output that that that had said it. It turned out to be a website that I had never heard of that had done a mostly positive review of inlinks. Um, and so I asked my my uh my VA to to reach out to them, see if they wanted to uh but they put this this false feature in there. She reached out to them, they immediately changed it. Um, they wanted accurate information and uh it was the easiest fix in that I I'd ever had actually. Um and uh job done. Some of the fixes are not going to be that easy, you know, but uh but some of them are. So it's already here. I think it's already here. Yeah. So to to your point, you know, on some of the it's about protecting the knowledge base, right? So the or or or affecting it or or making sure that the knowledge base is pure u I have a couple small businesses and we created a u a phone voice AI. So when you call after hours it can navigate and give you pricing and set up appointments and everything else. And that was a struggle. It took probably three four months because you know we just chose the the website as the general knowledge base which was a huge mistake because you you know there's 600 pages there's there's blogs articles and stuff that the AI get got confused and you know pulled information from that versus a very contained uh knowledge base. So, you know, this is our opportunity with your tool to to go in manage our knowledge base and and and where it's hallucinating, like you said, go in, change it, change what you can because, you know, the struggle is going to be other people's, you know, websites and articles that it's, you know, you can't necessarily control that, but you can do what you can to to affect that. So, and to your point, you know, this I came across you based on just by happen listening to another podcast. I think it was the edge of the web. Um and uh and basically um you know did some research and in that time while I was doing that a client reached out a medical um clinic and said hey what can you tell us about AI managing AI information and da da da da da and it was just perfect timing. But to your point, it's it's going to this is going to go crazy because I'm going to, you know, hand this podcast out to a bunch of my constituents and I, you know, they'll have you on their podcast and, you know, we we all need to get educated on this as quickly as we can. I'm delighted because Scott, I think before we can make too many recommendations as to how to how to manipulate it, we've got to first or influence it. I should say influence, not manipulate, shouldn't I? You know, uh search engine manipulation, SEM, SEO. Uh anyway uh so uh I you know before we can absolutely come up with all the things that we know about SEO SEO we know that the h tags were important we know that the structure is important know internal the link internal linking and external links you know in and out are important we know citations you know so we we've got a pretty good idea of things that we have to do because you know people like you and I have been in the industry a long time and and we've learned and we've learned by trial and error And you know, but this LLM stuff is really new. There the LLMs themselves are learning in a manner which is very hard for any human to uh to to um comprehend. Um but we can still start to record information and uh understand patterns and behaviors. So we've seen some really interesting things. Uh we've seen for example some of the some of the because we're making a lot of API calls and LLM lookup calls now. uh and some of the times they they they show their reasoning. So they're showing their reasoning and logic and some of the things. what we've seen is some of them thinking in a different language and uh that that I found very interesting um because uh when I think about it thinking in Chinese characters is a lot more efficient than thinking in English because there there may be more characters but they mean more concepts and so they can actually get to a a reasoned point in a in in a different way but it's not always English. I've seen Spanish in there as well. So, sorry, it's not always Chinese, you know. I've seen different different uh thought processes and they've just jumped into thinking or showing their thinking in a different language and it's kind of weird. Maybe it's because we're outside the US and we're sort of, you know, my business partner's French and stuff. So, you know, we kind of see stuff, but I don't know why I saw Spanish or or or Chinese, but I've definitely seen these in in the thought processes. So, they're thinking in bit weird ways. But when and so I apologize to anyone that's listening only because I'm going to use my hands now. But when an LLM is asked the question, you know, what is, you know, give me 10 good web design companies in Minnesota, then it's got to it'll start by taking that in tying turning it into its underlying constituencies. What are we talking? We're talking about web design and Minnesota really and good, you know, or or best or some concept of best. So those three things that's what however you phrase a question it can break it down to that concept at which point it can start by saying well okay let's go and look up a directory of companies in Minnesota and see which ones are web design companies for example or it could say right let's go and have a look at web design companies and then see which ones are based in Minnesota or it could say you know what let's go and have a look at the concept of web design and what it means to be good at web design uh and come up with things like UX and these kind of concepts and stuff and then see which ones of those ideas then uh are are mapped onto the web design companies I've seen in Minnesota. So it's got these different thought processes and they they run parallel thought processes just like a human does. Well, a little bit like a human does and then as they go to the next layer, the next layer, the next layer, they're kind of looking up more and more information. And we as businesses and as optimization experts have the opportunity at every layer as long as we know the sorts of things they might be talking about which is what hopefully WK is trying to do in the topic app stuff. we can say you know what the reason that you need to talk about this page over this concept over here is because at least one of the LLM processes with one of the competitors it went through that process and was talking about this concept and it and and it it seemed important um to the LLM on this occasion so why don't you interrupt it and write some content about this because it's part of the thought process and then when it gets to what's the best my hope is that eventually we'll say it will say well I've you know I've kept on coming to this brand as I've been doing my thinking process. I'm going to put them on the list. Yeah, it's it's I I just think it's it's one of these things that um probably I'm guessing a year from now there's going to be somebody in my company that this is all they do. Um they monitor this for a client or all our clients and it's part of our I think that's going to be step number one. you've got to monitor it first and you can't you can't make realistic ideas of what to do um until you monitor it and and and see see what's consistently coming out as incorrect in the LLMs or where it's making mistakes or seeing you know where there's clear opportunities the LLM has not seen this part of your service offerings how can we make it more obvious to the LLM for next time and then there's a whole new thing about that that training data for example so Gemini In the example we gave, none of us none of the three were in the Gemini training data. If I went to I did one yesterday for Nike, Adidas, and Filela, uh I don't know if you know Feler, but anyway, so three three footwear companies. Um and uh uh and Nike and Adidas were in Gemini's training data, but Feler wasn't, for example. Um, and that's a they're a big company and they've been around a long time. So, it's not it's it's everyone's problem, but eventually Google is going to want to update its training data. So, we need to be thinking about that now as optimization people because um back in the day uh Google used to update its index once a month and uh we all called it the Google dance and uh we just waited for it to happen and it took a week to do and we could see all the rankings going up and down which is why it's called the Google dance and uh and um uh and so we we were always had two sets of, you know, two opportunities to optimize. One, got to get indexed. Two, got to get to the top of the search results. This getting indexed part, if you aren't indexed, you're never going to get to the top of the search results. And that is already the way with training data versus rag retrieval uh search search based um grounded data. And um and clearly if you're if you ask a an AI, you know, what is 7 plus two? it doesn't need to do a search lookup. You know, it knows the answer and it doesn't have to go there. The more complicated the query, the more chance it's going to need to go to a search lookup. But if you're already in the training data, then you've got much more chance of being represented in the search lookup some way, shape, or form. Um, and so it it gives you a double a double shot at the cherry, I think. uh you know two two shots of the I'm mixing my metaphors but two shots of the Can you can you speak to the training data piece? So, I'm I'm a little confused on how how well not you and and I think people are going to want to know, you know, obviously, you know, it seems like people are are getting into the main the various large language models fairly easy, but the training data data seems to be a trickier deal obviously for an entity such as FILA, which is huge. I mean, how would you if they were your client, how would you go about saying this is what we need to help get you into training data? So I'm I'm unable to say for sure this is 100% uh the way to do things because we don't know whether chat GBT or Gemini or when Chat GPT and Gemini and Claude are going to completely give you a new set of training. It's it's it's like they're going to have to go in physically put in new new new hard drives with the new data on the on the systems. But what we can do to help that along and what we're doing in the WK product and what I think other people should be doing as well um is asking lots of questions around the topics that you're talking about. So what what what your product is. So if you're a bakery, ask about you know cooking bread and baking Victoria sponges and you know bakewell tarts or whatever. find out all of the places that they're they're saying they're getting their their data from, their sources from. That gives you a really good smattering of places that they think um that that that that they want to read to be able to to to get data. And if I was if I was running um this training data versus grounded data approach, I would be saying, well, I've got to get new URLs to check my to put in the training data next time round. A good place to go will be the ones I had to get to but didn't have um in when and I had to do a search lookup because search lookups costs an LLM a lot of money. And I know this because we have to pay for all the APIs and doing a Google training data API lookup costs nothing compared to a Google rag you know grounded data lookup. So it's much more expensive to do it's much more resource expensive and and pounds and dollars and cents expensive as well. So if they can a if they can the more they know from the training data the long term the the the cheaper the product is for them to supply. So it makes sense for them to start learning from where they had holes before basically. And uh so that's a good data source to look at. Even if you don't succeed there, it's a good data source to look at because the search results are bringing that information back. So you still want to be in there even if you don't get into the training data. So I I can't at the moment say, hey, chat GPT updated its training data yesterday. I think we will get there. I think uh Dan Petravic from Dejan SEO is running a tool called AI rank I think it's called um which is trying to take all the data and then you know he's hoping to get some signals of when the when when everything might be changing so when they might come out with new models. I think we'll try and get to a point where we're trying to do that as well. Um but uh but for sure they can't continue to not update their training data. Some people have got training. I think chat GBT is augmenting its data because we're starting to see you know a week or two later the numbers on chat GBT were saying zero and then they suddenly drop come up. So so they're they're um they're updating their data as they go. Gemini seems slower to update that, but it doesn't need to because it's got it's got Google search results to uh to to to back it up. Uh but I can't tell you how every LLM is going to work because everybody's innovating so fast that to say it's always done this way is a is a uh is yeah tempting fate because you know as soon as that happens, someone will prove you wrong. So, we're we're getting towards the towards the end here, but um I I wanted you to touch on if if there there is a topic in terms of where do you see your product evolving? What features are you hoping to you know, are you working on this relatively new product, right? It's only been out for a short period of time. You know, where do you where do you where do you folks? So the the things that we we were taking some feedback from from uh from having a stand up Brighton SEO u one of the things although I didn't show it um here because it just takes a couple of minutes uh um we we we actually build this knowledge graph of your website when we're starting a project and everyone was saying I want to see that and it did didn't appear in the end product it was just on the something to keep you entertained whilst we were building the thing right so that's coming out actually next week so so uh the reason I didn't show the topic stuff right at the bottom is that's going to turn into a nice little bubble graph of topics that your that represents your brand and things that your comp competitors are talking about you're not and stuff like that. So a nice little thing there. Um so so that that's coming out Monday, you know, we we we try not to launch on a Friday because, you know, just in case it goes down over the weekend, you know, uh and um we've had requests for sentiment analysis. they they they like that the the factchecking and stuff, but you know, they'd like to know whether whether the the facts that you know about it are saying good things about your brand or bad things about your brand. We're not so sure how useful that will be in practice, but if customers are asking for it, we got to react with that. So, uh so that's a that's an important thing. Um I think uh those those are the the the two urgent things but I think we have to acknowledge that the technology is changing so fast and and of course uh when I started in SEO you know Alter Vista was the big player in town and Yahoo was chasing them uh and uh and so the world the world tends to contract into bigger organizations at some point in time. So, you can see the two mammoths are, you know, Chat GPT and Google Gemini. Uh, and then there's Claude and Perplexity and stuff, but then, you know, Grock's got its thing out there. There's Deep Seat with the Chinese. There's uh there's Llama in Facebook and stuff. They're all playing the game, right? uh and uh and and they're going to be trying to eat each other up and spit them out because they're going to have those those big fights because there's big money in here, but there's also big costs to the losers, you know, because they're putting huge amounts into these things. So um so I think uh just just measuring measuring and measuring as much as we can but but but making sure that the action points make sense to a business in human terms is where we really want to focus and and so so the action plan in the one I example I showed you um you know hopefully these are um on point um So a and and not overly you know assumptive you know so or presumptive uh if we go too far then then I think uh we'll we'll come acropper as we say in England um but uh the other developments are going to be h we want mult people want multi-user access so they've asked that already uh large organizations want credit facilities it's I hate that I hate large organizations Get your credit card out like all the rest of us. Pay as you go. You know, I'm happy. You can cancel this stuff at any time if you don't like it. But do not make me take 45 days to take your billions, Mr. Ezos. You know, whatever. Just get your card out. You make us do, you do it, you can do it as well. That's my Well, and sorry, I've got I've got on a little personal rant there, you know. No, no. And I, as a business owner, I've I've had large organizations do that to me and I I'm like, fine, it's, you know, 10% more. You know, it's it's interest. It's a money game. And we'll play the game, but your product is now 10% more. So, and I'd love to pay six months in in a rears with Netflix subscription. Be great. No problem. Yeah, my and I think my wife would too. So, but ultimately um so that that's exciting. I mean, I really I really see this as a uh for agencies um you know, for individual businesses for sure, right? And to your point, try it and and if you know, if you don't you're not getting anything out of it after a few months. If you don't like it, you've spent 20 bucks, you know, that's you know, you're not, you know, and if you do like it, you know, you you can you can you can just leave it there tracking and it will build up a bit of picture over over time. Um and uh and and then when you got time to really pay attention to it or somebody comes along and says, you know, hey, you know, I've just seen this company down the road who's gone bust because, you know, everybody thought that they closed down because that's what it said in the LLM. You know, right? You know, that's when you want to pick up and say, I need to make sure that's not happening on my side. Yeah. Well, and I see for me, I see this as, you know, I own a couple small businesses and obviously I have the agency and I, you know, I'll talk with my team and and like we're going to do this and we're going to start to present it to as part of our core reporting every month or quarter depending on the client and saying, "Okay, we started doing this." Um, and then just see their, you know, see their reaction and then, you know, it's it's it's a feature, you know, it's all labor. So if we have to you know adjust things we we charge accordingly. But that was another thing that we uh yeah you talked about the roadmap. Where are we going with that? One of the other things that we were asked to do was to you know create those reports out in a way that they could put into Lucer Studio or into some into some kind of thing. So we're going to create the ability for you to have one of those, you know, Google Docs links so you could just give the link straight to the customer so they can see their action plan and uh and and see what they're going to do, you know, right? That would be fabulous. and and and like most of our reports we give customers um you know they do better with graphs and big pictures and that's true for me you know so versus spreadsheets and and you know minutia so to speak yeah yeah yeah you got to be people people need to know the why as well as the what you know you can't just give people a list of things to do I mean how many of us in the SEO industry have written these audit reports given them to a customer uh and Then six months later, not a single thing has been looked at, done, or possibly even read, you know. Um uh and uh I don't I don't want that to be the case with our products. So, let's let's uh the last couple steps. Let's review pricing uh if that's right, and then um how we get it how we get in touch with you. Um and then, uh all the URLs and everything that's relevant for So, so the way the pricing pricing works, as I say, you there is a free version. It'll just give you a brand report and it won't give you that action plan. But but you know, it it'll get you up and running and and see the feel of it and see just how easy it is. Um upgrading is all done online. It's literally press the button there that's in front of you and if you want to cancel that's just there as well. I learned from in links, you know, in links we said contact us if you want to cancel. That really annoys customers. We programmed it now. It's kind of like I wish we'd And it annoys me as well because every time somebody cancels I have it hits me in the heart, you know. So, uh I I just want if people don't like it, press a button and off they go. Um but uh but the $20 will give you eight reports a month. Now, a report is either one report eight times or um or or you know different topic reports um less frequently. So, um, so if you're going to try and do this report every day, so some rank checking people will check their rankings every single day, you know, well, that's going to be quite expensive because every time you got to run one of these reports, we end up having to make 15, you know, five, you got five search, five engines, three, three companies, 15 lookups, all costing money. So, basically that's going to come down to the bottom line. So, uh, so we've got packages where you can upgrade, you know, from from $20 a month to what's the next one up $60 a month or $70 a month or whatever and then, you know, so you $199 a month and you get more reports for the month. But, um, but essentially each report, if you think about it, is going to cost two to$ two and a half dollars depending on how much you're spending. Um, and if you don't want to upgrade that subscription service, you can just go in and buy 50 reports and then use them as you go. So that's kind of we've tried to make it really easy for not not just small companies but small tasters you know people that that you know you could be a massive organization but still the only thing you do is shipping containers you know so you could be m shipping containers and and and all you want to know is shipping containers you know uh and you know and that's your your your single topic so your branding and and that's fine um but uh but I don't I didn't want to uh make it just because you're a big company, you've got to give us lots of lots of money or just because you're a small company, you can't go and use the system that the cost the actual cost is in doing those API lookups and creating those reports. So, let's make it so that yes, we get a little subscription, but the the more you use it, the more you'll pay, you know. Um and then you can go and easily change those reports from monthly to weekly to daily if you want. So if you suddenly decide, you know what, we now need to be really well known for shipping containers because it would appear that this other shipping company is is is is, you know, taking over the world. Um, then you can just do it for a day or, you know, go for go for a few days on a daily update, see if you can make a make a material change and then put it back down to monthly. So you've kind of got some information in there. So you can spend as much as little as you want. If you're an agency, there's no limit to the number of projects in there. So, you can just put in a couple of things for each of your clients and then say, "Look, we think you need a lot more than these, but you know, here's a couple to keep you going. You know, we'll we we'll we'll invest $5 a month for each of you, you know, to uh to show you a few things." And once we've got that that free link that you can give to people, that would be nice because they don't have to try and log in or anything. Um uh but uh but but yeah, I think uh my hope is that companies will at least generally have four or five concepts that they want to uh want to start tracking and then hopefully they want to do that either monthly or weekly. Uh but that means that they they're going to start to grow as they have more trust in the uh in the in the uh the reporting. Yeah, I really like your price and it's fair obviously, you know, um you you it's scalable. You can scale it up or down, right? You know, and uh depending on your season of of business, you know, you know, the downside there's we got a competitor out there called Hang on, sorry, I Blu-Tech, I mean, sticking things on walls. Um so, uh we got a competitor out there who's going going for the enterprise market, should we say, you know, and we think we got a better product. uh I won't mention them because it's you know but uh uh we we we think our approach is better. We've actually put in a patent for this for this uh this scoring mechanism. We think it's quite clever the idea of blending out blending knowledge graphs. Um and uh uh they you know they're one of those companies where the pricing is so much you can't put it on the website. you can't you got to contact us to even get the price and and and that's going to happen quite a bit and and I think that's that's an insult to innovators. I think that that's a uh it's a it's a it's a I I don't like it. But what it means is when a large organization comes and sees our pricing starts at 20 bucks, they immediately think, oh, these guys don't, you know, that's that's a that's a that's a cheap product. That's a, you know, well, they're gonna they're going to lose to the innovators at that point. You know, the ones that do that, you know, not all of them, of course, we've already got some big big brands in in in the system. So, I'm quite confident that uh that will get over that hurdle, but as soon as you make a a cheap entry price, you suddenly have all these brands who, you know, um you know, who think it must be, you know, it must be not for them. Uh so, I've got that battle to Yeah, but I think you'll overcome it because it's, you know, again, more exposure we can give you. Um, and again, it's fair. I mean, it's logical. I guess that's the phrase I want to use. It's a logical pricing. It's a logical pricing. Yeah. Yeah. Right. You know, it's like, you know, no, do you do you get a great discount for using more? Maybe a little, but the reality is it's your cost is fixed. It's not like, you know, the API cost is going to drop tremendously, you know. Oh, yeah. It's not. It might go up. And the downside is if if if Chat GPT put their prices up like you know 200% I might have to pass that on to the customer because I actually have to pay that price. But you know but yeah it's it's yeah somebody's got to pay for the nuclear nuclear power plants that drive these data centers and everything else you know it's just fact the way it is you know. So yeah that's how it is. Yeah. Yeah. So well this is exciting. We'll put a we'll put a link to your product again. I mean, you can you can I'll say it over the over the for the podcasters. It's it's it's remember it's what AI knows about you, which is why it's called WK.io. It stands for what AI knows about you. It's um and uh the ALMs know who we are now. So, you know, if you type in WK to chat GBT, it'll probably get maybe not the training data Gemini though. Not for a while. No, I saw that was it was pretty interesting. Well, uh I I really appreciate your time, Dixon, and and uh hopefully down the road we can we can have you back. It, you know, when as you again there's going to be evolution of your product, you're going to have more features. Uh I'm sure our listeners will love to and viewers will love to see that and um and uh and again, I'll I'll spread the word to to other people in the industry. hopefully can get get on their various podcast and and get this uh because it's a huge value to uh our clients and at the end of the day that's the business we're in. We we hope so. We hope so. Yeah. We we really want to be the market leader in this now and that's another reason for going with a low starting point because we you know we know that there's a there's a big there's big land grab out there for you know tools around this kind of thing. We don't think that many people have got the ability to add a value layer in the product. they're just kind of just asking API but they don't have something like our entity knowledge graph system that that that that comes came out of in links which is at the core of the the the methodology. Uh so you know but time will tell if I'm not here in a year I failed. Well I I don't think that's going to be the case. So I mean you're you know too much and I and um and I I know it's a need. I know it's a need because our clients are telling us that. I mean we wouldn't be here in this interview if you know you know, if nobody said anything to me or clients ever said anything, it'd be like, you know, that's nice, but they're asking for it. And if they they need it, then obviously we're probably a year behind, you know, so to speak. So, um, but we'll we'll we'll catch up. Thanks very much for your time, Bob. I really appreciate it. And thanks to your listeners for staying this long. Thanks again, Dixon. We'll see you now. [Music]