# Ethan Smith — YouTube Transcript 1

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yeb0jt7h6NE
**Channel:** Graphite SEO
**Date Collected:** April 29, 2026

## Transcript

Thanks, Brian. Excited to uh talk about this. So, we're talking about answer engine optimization. Um there's not yet a an accepted label for name for this but our our working title is answer engine optimization or AEO. Uh so, thanks for the introduction but yeah, a bit about me. CEO of Graphite and I teach the SEO course at Reforge. We also added some AEO content uh recently. and then I also teach at IE uh I also gave a presentation on this a few months ago. So I'll paste that here. I go into a bit more discussion on that link about the underlying technology. So I'll give a more simple explanation of that and and go more into optimization. But if you want to know more about the underlying technology, you can watch that previous reforge presentation. So yeah, a bit about us. We build SEO and AEO engines for a bunch of the companies that Brian mentioned. And I think an important thing whenever selecting an SEO agency or hiring an SEO person is uh a lot of people ask me how do I select an SEO company and everyone always has the same list of strategies and the same uh you know tactics and deliverables. But ultimately, the best way to hire someone is to say, "Who did you work with? When did you start?" And then look to see what their traffic was before they started and after they started. And have they been able to reproduce over and over again results. So, uh, the strategies that we share, we try to try them out and reproduce them multiple times. And then the stuff that works over and over again, we we uh we do those. And so, here are a few examples of that. And our agenda. So, first we'll just talk about the fact that AI is growing. What does that look like? And then go into optimization. So, how do we find questions that we care about? How do we think about earned versus owned? What are the types of questions? And then how do we track stuff? So, first is AI is growing. I think we all know that, but here's some data uh to back that up. So, chat GPT visitors are up 80% since April. Uh another, interesting, thing, that the, chat GPT is is a large majority of the uh market share now and then perplexity and and claude are uh after that. Although you know if you think when search engines started I think AOL and Yahoo were the biggest and then Dog Pile and Excite and then uh you know this this chart right now would probably say AOL is huge. So everyone just use AOL and then you know over time that uh sort of shakes out and and uh but this this will probably look different over time. A lot of my friends when I ask they use perplexity but right now chat GPT has a has a big market share but I do think that this that the landscape will change a lot. Okay. So uh when chat GPT started it was based on next word prediction and that was based on I'm going to get a giant snapshot of the whole internet based on common crawl. it's a year old and I'm going to train the model and then when I ask something like what's the best project management software the information is a year old and it's based on next word prediction which means you know uh Jira and and project management co-occur a lot so Jira must be a really good answer there are a bunch of problems with that stale data uh hallucinations and so more and more when you ask chat a question it starts with a search and then it summarizes the search results and why that matters matters is because uh optimizing for AI chat is essentially start you start with optimizing for search and then you optimize for the chat response but it's very similar to search. So this is a quick diagram of how that works but basically you put a question in that becomes a search you get the results and then you summarize the search results and then you get the answer. Uh an interesting thing is that a few months ago when you would ask chat a question, there was nothing to click on. Uh and if you wanted to know how much impact are you getting from chat, you had no idea because the way you would you would do a search and then you would see an answer and then you would open a new tab and then search for ClickUp and then go to ClickUp and ClickUp had no idea whether or not they were getting any impact from from chat. But now, uh Chat GBD has clickable blue links over the past, I would say, two months. Also, I was looking for a hotel in New York, and there's a map with clickable map results, and none of this existed a few months ago. And so, chat is basically converging with search and it's becoming more and more similar to search. Uh so the other interesting thing is that when Google started you can all all of the uh all the clicks would go to organic or most of it would go to organic and then Google added ads and they added their their Google products and then the Google products sort of started taking over the page and then they have AI overviews and so over time many of the clicks actually don't go to organic uh SEO they go to ads and Google's own products. So, here's a few examples, but blue is is or sorry, green is organic. And you'll see that a lot of the real estate, especially at the top is not is not clickable uh stuff to organic. And uh here's a quick where we're we're doing an analysis to see how much of the screen real estate is uh is organic and it's not that high. And actually, Bing is even worse. So, Bing has even more ads and more uh features. So traditional search, many of the clicks don't go to organic SEO. Whereas for chat, it's all organic. Probably chat will have ads, but a much larger percentage of the clicks now and probably moving forward are going to go to organic. So not only is the channel getting larger, but the share of the clicks going to organic is is also much larger and probably will always be larger. I'll give you a quick example. So, here's Wedding Photographers NYC. All of this is ads and then I keep scrolling and then it's still ads and then there's a map and then and then finally there's an organic results but the share of the clicks that are going to go to the knot or any of these other uh links is going to is much lower. Whereas chat if you ask chat what are the best photographers it's all organic clickable links all the link all the clicks are going to go to the organic results. All to say that the uh the share of the clicks that are going to this channel to organic is is much larger than traditional search. Therefore, it's a a super interesting channel. So, because chat starts with a search and you're optimizing for search and that's how you show up in ch in chat, answer optimization is the new SEO. It's very similar to SEO as as you mentioned, Brian. There's core underlying principles that are timeless and then there's new stuff that that comes. that the cornerline principles of SEO apply to answer engine optimization. So I'll talk about those principles and then some of the new stuff. So what is answer optimization? So first it's optimizing for the answer and the second is it's optimizing for citations. And so one of the main things that's different with chat is that citations have a larger impact than uh your own page. And so I'll talk about both me getting ranked and then how do I optimize for other people citing me. Okay. So the first is question research. So in SEO you would do keyword research. In chat you would do question research. Which questions are people actually asking? Which ones do I care about? And so uh answers vary by qu question varian. So you can ask the same question in many different ways and you'll get different answers. So this is an example with project management software. There's a bunch of different ways to ask what the best project management software is. So you need to know what are all those variants. And with SEO, we target by keywords and topics. And I go into this in a lot of detail in my SEO Reforge course, but just to give you an example, uh this this uh result of best project management software ranks for almost 19,000 different keywords. And so if I'm this company and I want to show up for best project management software, I'm not just targeting this one head term. I'm targeting 19,000 different uh keywords. And so I need to figure out what's the search volume of all these different keywords. I need to figure out how to group them. And then I group them at the topic level. The topic level. By that I mean this one page is a single topic around project management software. And then there's 19,000 different keywords. And so SEO targets by by uh topics and keywords. This is an example. So I would go to HFS and download a bunch of keyword data, group them, look at their look at their search, and then I would come up with a strategy around this. That would be for SEO. And then for AEO it would be question variance. So what are the 20,000 different question uh variants where I could ask about what the best credit card is. So uh this is this is the new version for AEO. And so AEO also needs topics. Each landing page in chat that you're optimizing is a topic that is targeting thousands of different questions. Okay, so next is earned and owned. And I mentioned that um for SEO you really just care about I want my page to show up. Whereas for AEO that's not enough and you need other citations which have a a a larger influence on the answer and you need those things to mention you as well. So here's an example where what's the best credit card and uh Brex is showing up both because Brex said that themselves is that they are themselves are a great credit card but also because Nerd Wallet mentioned them and so this matters more. So how do I earn mentions and actually let me just show you a quick example. Okay so for Yep. Okay. So for the best credit card and tech startups, you'll see here that all of these are uh earned mentions. These are all other companies showing up. And that is why you'll see answers like Brex or RAMP because they're all these ramp shows up one time and Brex shows up not at all. So, you know, if I'm uh optimizing and I want if I'm at Brex or I'm at Ramp and I want to show up, the best I could possibly do is to show up one time and say that I myself is is the best option. But that's going to cap out in terms of your impact. So, if you really want to show up for this, you need to focus on citations um and and showing up for those citations. So, then how do I earn mentions? So, I have all these citations and I want them to mention me. So the first is just to track who is actually being the citation. Then the second is to get them to mention you. So you know there's a bunch of different ways to do that. You can email and you can beg them which is what people do for link building. Please link to me. You have a broken link. Add me. I'm a I'm a great option. You could pay them. I think there will be an a whole affiliate marketplace where uh where you know bank rate and nerd wallet like here's $500. Please add my card to your page. probably going to probably going to be that. The other interesting thing is that it's not that you're mentioned by Nerd Wallet or by Bank Rate. It's that you're mentioned on this specific URL. So if I get a link on the New York Times and I'm RAMP, that's great. But if I'm ramp and I get a mention on the New York Times for the best credit card, it doesn't matter because the New York Times is never mentioned. Or if they are mentioned, they're not mentioned on the homepage. they're mentioned on these specific landing pages. So when I do outreach, it needs to be on these specific URLs. And then I need to figure out which of these citations are mentioned the most by all of the question variants. So not just this one question, but there's a thousand different ways. So across all thousand question variants for best credit card, which citations are appearing the most? And then I need to figure out how to get mentioned on there. So that's how we optimize for mentions. And then the other thing is UGC and UGC is more and more uh mentioned as [Music] a as a source. So I'm trying to get this one here. Yeah. So okay. So I asked what's the best bicycle and then Reddit is an example. So Reddit is the reason why Marin full suspension mountain bike is the best bicycle. And then here you'll see Marin is mentioned in this comment and across a lot of questions for our Reddit and YouTube are key citations. You'll see here also that as I scroll. Yep. As I scroll here, so there's Wikipedia, Reddit, YouTube Reddit again, YouTube again, Reddit again, Reddit again. It's read it five times. And so, you know, if I want to optimize, I really need to show up for Reddit. I need to show up Reddit on these specific threads. And there's a whole art for show up on Reddit because people on Reddit don't want you to manipulate answers on Reddit for this very reason. So then how do you figure out how to get mentioned in Reddit? And then how do you figure out uh how to get mentioned in core and on YouTube, which is totally different from how do you figure out how to get mentioned on on Nerd Wallet? There's a bunch of different ways to do that, but I think that Reddit optimization, core optimization, YouTube optimization now become see ways where you can uh get your brand to show up. And and another interesting thing is when you ask about a brand like is this brand legit? Is is uh is is Brex a great credit card? You might get these Reddit threads where it says no, I don't like Brex and I don't like for all these different reasons. So there's this negative sentiment. So now do you push down that Reddit thread and get another Reddit thread to show up higher than that? So anyway, long story short that uh UGC social optimization for your brand is be going to become more and more important. We also see this in Google where Reddit has I think 5xed or 10xed same with Kora over six months ago. So long story short, optimizing for your uh brand showing up in social is is more and more important. Okay. So then there's different types of questions. So in SEO there's uh like informational navigational, transactional, etc. So then there's new categorizations of kinds of questions in uh in chat and so one is that there's popular questions site media and social UGC. So again if I'm ramp uh I to optimize for this question which is a popular question. What's the best credit card? I need to focus primarily on showing up in citations. That's most of my work is citation optimization. not getting my landing page to show up because most of the citations are not me, it's other people. And that's for most popular questions. More specific questions actually site product companies. So, if you ask something specific and ask follow-up questions, uh you will see yourself showing up. So, uh it's it's more about an owned strategy. So, it's less about optimizing for citations and I want my landing page to show up. So an example of that is if we ask question like what's the best uh what's the best uh virtual virtual physical therapy solution. So what's the best thing here? Uh it's uh this is a product question. So, this is a this is a specific question and you'll see that product companies are getting mentioned and then you can ask all these follow-up questions like which are the best for muscle and joint pain and uh which have uh who's eligible and probably we we're not sure but probably much of chat is this conversation where there's a bunch of follow-up questions. So, for Google you just say best project management software done with chat you would ask all these follow-up questions like what about this? What about this feature? How does this compare to this? And so as you're asking all these more specific follow-up questions, Nerd Wallet does not have answers to your thousand different questions, but ramp has answers to a thousand different questions about how to use ramp. And so for the more specific the question, the more it matters that my page shows up and my page answers all the questions versus the citation. So then this is similar to to the uh longtail uh Google search keyword chart. So for for search you would do like uh credit card credit card with this longtail would be credit card that has all these different attributes. Same is true for questions. So for questions there's head questions like best tool for X and that's mostly going to be showing up in citations other people's pages. But mid and longtail questions like well what's the best tool for X with this feature and then these other features and what about these follow-up questions those are probably be answered on your site and so much of the uh much of the impact from your site for questions is going to be all these mid and longtail questions and then some questions never mention products in the first place. So if you ask a question like, "How do I fix my how do how do I fix pain in my shoulder?" In Google search, that's a great question for Hinge Health to show up in, but in chat, yeah, they can't possibly get any impact from that because it's just anformational question. So, some some questions have uh have products and some questions don't. Like, I'll show you here. Again this is uh how do I have how do I fix nerve pain or sorry, how do I fix my shoulder pain? It's impossible to get any impact from this question. Even if you're cited, you you cannot get any any value from this because it's a it's anformational question. Whereas uh what's the best tool for X, you can get impact. You can your product can show up. So some questions can never have products and some questions can have products. And so we want to distinguish which questions we actually care about and focus on the questions where we have products showing up. We don't care about questions where our product can't show up. based on our analysis, most questions do actually have products mentioned. Uh, which is great. Um, but you know, we want to as we're going through our different question topics we want to exclude the ones where we're not going to make money. We want to focus on the ones where we can. So, you know, back to we're doing keyword research, we're doing question research and there's 10,000 different options. We want to filter this by which can mention products and then for uh which ones do I want to focus on where my page can show up which is mid and longtail questions and then which ones will I do citation optimization which are the head head questions. Okay. And then uh you know we talk a lot about this in the reforge course where if you want to show up in SEO and you want your landing page to show up for uh for best project management software you need to answer all the questions. So when Google says good content, that means that it's comprehensive. I'm looking for you to answer all of the questions that people have about project management software. If you do, your content is good. Also if you do, you'll have good engagement because users will search for something and they'll find the answer and they'll stay there. The same is true for questions. Good landing pages to show up for questions are ones that answer everything. So an example here with Hinge Health is uh best project or sorry best best uh uh physical therapy. I asked this follow-up question. What's the time commitment for for virtual physical therapy? It says here session duration 15 minutes. The reason why it said that is because on because Hinge Health answers that question. So they have FAQs and we say well how much time does it take to do virtual physical therapy? and they say, "Well, we ask you to, do, at least, 15, minutes, three, times, a week." And that appears here. And if Hinge Health never mentions that they're not an answer here. So, good content for questions are ones that answer all of the subtopic follow-up questions. And you can kind of see that here. So, for the SEO course, we talk about there's 19,000 different keywords. Look for themes like best project management software tools, definition, example templates. The exact same thing is true for questions. So take your thousand different questions and then group and theme them and then say well what are all the follow-up questions like uh what are you how do they work balance transfers uh things like that. So good content for chat or ones that answer all the follow-up questions. Okay. And then tracking. I I covered tracking in more in a lot of detail in the previous uh Reforge uh webinar that I linked to in the chat but I'll just give a quick overview. Getting uh pinged every day, maybe multiple times a day uh asking about tracking and tracking tools. So, I wanted to just quickly review this again. And um for SEO, when you track, you have one position. So, I rank number one for best project or you know, for project management software, I rank number one. But for AEO, that's not what happens because I can ask the same question and get different answers, which is not the case in search. And there's thousands of question variants. And there's multiple different surfaces. There's chat, GPT there's perplexity, there's claude. So I can't just say I rank one. I need to instead look at a share of voice or how frequently am I showing up? How frequently am I the answer versus a competitor? And it's sort of a distribution or a share of uh type of a tracking. And there's like 50 different tracking companies right now. They're all kind of doing the same thing, but share of uh is is how to think about it rather than a single discrete position. Uh and then you can track your performance over time. Uh attribution. So up until two months ago, it was really hard to attribute because nothing was clickable. Now it is clickable. So I actually think that you can just use last touch like you would with with Google. But um another way to do that is with uh with a asking how did you hear about us? So we asked this a lot of time in a conversion. How did you hear about us? And then we can figure out was it from chat or was it from something else. Okay. And then what tool should you use? So again I'm asked multiple times today. Which have you checked this new tool out? They just launched yesterday. And so uh I think that this is similar to keyword tracking. Like which tool should I use for keyword tracking? And the answer is it doesn't really matter. They're all the same. just pick the one that's the cheapest. And the same is true for answer tracking. Uh it's not that hard to build. That's why you have 50 companies doing this. So I would just pick the cheapest one. We actually built our own. I think it costs us a few cents per question. So it's pretty cheap. So I would just look at, you know, any of these tools and then pick whatever whichever one's the cheapest. uh over time I think that these tools will evolve into how do I optimize and more interesting things but tracking alone I would just pick the cheapest tool so key takeaways AEO is the new SEO it's growing um the share of the clicks is going to be much larger for organic which is exciting it's also converging with search it's becoming more similar to search uh questions should be topics so the topic concept applies to questions as well topics are a cluster of many questions that I'll ask similar uh similar topic but they're variants of each other. We we as a company we probably only care about questions with products in the answer, not ones that are informational. And then we probably want to focus on mid and longtail questions and ed topics uh with our site. And then head topics, we care about citation optimization. And then how do we actually optimize? Similar to SEO, we answer all the sub we answer all the follow-up questions that people have. Good content answers all the questions. And then we track by share a voice rather than a single discrete position. And this is how to stay in touch. So we uh we post a lot of thought leadership on LinkedIn. Uh and this these are clickable uh links. So you can follow me. Uh you can sign up for the Reforge course where I cover some of this stuff. Feel free to ping me. And uh this is a link to this presentation uh as well. If anybody wants to look at the slides, I think we might send them out as well. And uh that's all. So, we got a few questions here. Um the, uh, and so for folks, open the Q&A uh, chat. Even if you're not going to ask a question, upvote the ones that you're most interested in. That way, we know where to focus our time. And um and so so the first kind of question is that Ethan is that can you talk a little bit more detail on the exhaustive way to get the list of questions for AEO and uh does uh so that's the first question. Let's start there and then I'll get to the second question. Yeah, there's two ways to do that. So how you would do that with Google search is these tools are grabbing, they're generally grabbing from Google Ads API and Google Ads API gives you search volume and it's not actually accurate but it's kind of close to it. It's like 32,000, not exact, but basically people are grabbing search volume from Google Ads API, which is the truth set. And there is no truth set. There's no ads API for Chad GPT. And so, uh, there's two different ways. The first way is to buy the information from similar web or an ISP where you get you know something outside of an ads API which which is possible. We have not done that. Uh but that's an option. Then the second way is to guess. So what we're doing is we're taking keywords and we're saying that we think that since this is 32,000 this is 11,000 that that'll be relatively directionally accurate. And so let's take the Google uh search keywords and assume that the the similar patterns for questions are are uh what matter. So what we would do is we would take we would get a bunch of Google search keywords and then transform them into questions. So project management software becomes what is the best project management software. Something down here would become comparisons like please compare project management software comparison. You can do that by you can probably do that by just asking chat GPT what's a question variant of this or you know asking what is that is assumed that is not a not a truth set. So for now that's what we're doing over time. I think that there will be an ads API or some you know people will buy the actual truth set from similar web and from ISPs but for now we're just sort of assuming and transforming Google search keywords into questions. Interesting. Um kind of a totally different topic. You mentioned all the UGC aspect which is fascinating to see just like how much they're dominating search engine results like Reddit specifically. But do you think that's as critical for B2B as a TOC business? because you're B2B, you mentioned you're posting on LinkedIn. I didn't really see LinkedIn in those results that that sample that you showed. So, I'm just interested how you think about the UGC aspect uh for B2B versus B TOC. It seems to ma matter a lot. They seem to be cited a lot. Reddit, Kora and YouTube in particular. So, I think that those matter. Also, these are new search engines. So, I think that these will change over time. you'll see a huge uh share of of YouTube and Reddit specifically more than I think is reasonable. So, I think that over time that'll diversify and you'll see LinkedIn and you know 20 UGC sites, but right now it just it's just all Reddit and YouTube. Uh it it does appear that uh those are cited frequently for B2B because we do a lot of B2B work. So, it they are generally cited a lot for for B2B, but I think that they'll probably diversify over time. Yeah, it is. It does feel like things they overcorrected on Reddit just says how much they and and it's fascinating to see that um take shape. And actually one other followup to that is that we're talking about chat GPT and uh and perplexity and what will probably happen over the next 5 years is that chat GPT and perplexity and claude will get forked into uh application specific chat like Reforge has. So Reforge has a chat that uh is probably built on well I I assume it's built on one of those models and uh and if you ask project best project management software you you'll get a different answer and you and you'll get a different answer because you're training on reforges content which is different from common crawls content, and, and, and, I, think that, there will be a lot more usage of these application specific chats with different training sets or you know different inputs and so for that reason I would not only uh want to optimize for for Reddit to show up on chat GPT, but in the Reforge chat, I want to show up in Reforge and get Reforge people to mention me. And, you know, maybe there's like a Lenny shot I wanted to show up in within Lenny's community to appear. So I think that it'll sort of broaden with these application specific chats and closed UGC community uh type data sets. I think so, a little bit related to that,, one, of the, questions, is, about, how long we start before we start seeing ads because you kind of showed the percentage of organic. We've already started to see that a tiny bit in perplexity, but um I I'm just like I'm interested in how you think about that emerging over time. I'm not sure. I will say that the Perplexity CEO said, "We're thinking about it. It looks like Cha GPT is quickly adding these search features like clickable links and maps and uh I would imagine that they'll need to start making money at some point." So I would assume that it would come over the next two years. like clearly they're converging on search so presumably they would add ads. So that would be my guess but not sure. I would say it's typically the development of ads also creates the tooling to do the organic stuff better, right? You know, I mean a lot of the yeah, a lot of the tools in in search and organic SEO fed off of the tools provided to ads uh to get to get data and other pieces. So, you know, they do they do kind of, you know, uh take it like take it into advantage uh kind of play into each other. Yeah. And I think it'll be similar to Reddit has sponsored Reddit posts and Kora has sponsored Kora post. So, I think it'll be pretty similar. You'll have five things and one of them will be sponsored. Yeah. So, one of the questions is also just like if you're just starting out, um maybe we can talk about this through a few different stages of company, like an early stage company, a mid-stage company, and a late stage company. How do you think about splitting focus and investment between quote unquote old school SEO right, and kind of new school um answer engine optimization? But how do you think about where to place your your chips and your limited resources? Yeah. So, let's say that I'm a startup. I have a brand new credit card and I have no back links. Uh it's impossible to rank in Google for best credit card. It'll take years. But you can actually rank uh in chat faster because again the citations are what matter. And I if I'm mentioned uh in the citations a few times, I I don't even need a website and I can still show up for that. So, I think if I'm a brand new company, I might try to get cited by with a few money uh head questions and focus there because because that could happen pretty quickly. There's this one example with project management software where we think uh Reich shows up. I haven't heard of Reich. They seem cool, but they show up, disproportionately, and, I, think that that's because they're somehow getting cited a disproportionate amount, which would be really hard in Google. So if you're starting out, citation optimization I think is is quite interesting. The other thing that could be interesting is uh brandjacking where I create content about other popular credit card brands that maybe they haven't answered like well you know can I for ramp is that available in Japanese maybe they don't even have on ramp whether or not it's available in Japanese but I have an answer about yeah it's available in Japanese and so are we so you could basically rank for competitors branded questions that's really high intent and uh you might be able to show up for that so that would like a brand new company and then mid I would want to show up for my product queries. This is similar to SEO. So if I'm a midsize company I want to show up for my brand features uh or products that I have. So I want to show up for credit card. I want to show up for credit card for this thing. Uh I probably don't want to doformational questions like you know best things to do on the weekend but then as as I'm a larger company I want to focus on problems that I solve. So, for hinge health, I have uh how do I what's a good tool to help with pain in my shoulder? I want to show up for that because I've already uh I've already shown up for best uh physical therapy. Now, I want to show up for all the problems that I'm a solution for or I want to show up for the uh the uh user journey. So, we did the B2B uh webinar uh Reforge webinar where we basically said if you're a B2B company, you want a want to figure out what are all the problems that I'm a solution for and then b what's your target persona and what's their user journey. So if a director of finance is trying to decide what bank to use, what are all the uh steps uh that that a that a director of finance takes when they're making decision about the bank or like what do they do all day long and have a resource content around that. So that's what I would do for late stage, early stage uh try to show up for brand queries, try to get cited and then middle uh middle stage try to rank for your uh the products that you're selling. I want to generalize the next question a little bit which is it was you know when will chat traffic take over search engine traffic but maybe maybe kind of just stepping back I'm just interested in the general trends that you're seeing between those two in terms of any um like decline in uh search engine traffic or maybe you're not seeing that and the relative increase you're seeing from the chat experiences and and how those two are starting to trend. Yeah. So, another way to ask this is when will Tik Tok search overtake Google? And a few years ago, there were articles about Tik Tok is blowing up and everyone is moving to Tik Tok and Google's going down. And it's true that Tik Tok search blew up. Same with Instagram search. Everyone's searching on Instagram now. And that is true. And it did blow up and it's and it's very popular, but Google didn't go down. And so I think what's happening is that there are these new search surfaces that come over every few years. YouTube people search on YouTube, they search on Instagram, they search on Tik Tok search on Amazon. And there are different use cases where these different products are a better experience. It's better to search on YouTube for a video about how to cook something. It's better to search on Instagram maybe for best restaurant in Miami, but that doesn't mean that Google goes down. And so what's happening is the the pie of search is getting larger. And Google slice is the same size slice forever. And I haven't seen Google search go down, but the pie is getting bigger. And that and the pie is expanding into Instagram, YouTube, Tik Tok, chat. And so that's what I'm guessing will happen is chat will blow up, but Google won't go down. It'll stay kind of the similar size, but chat will become yet another uh part of the pie. So, how do you think just let me poke at that a little bit. You know, obviously there's a bunch of people posting things out there about the decline in um so that's at the overall pie, but if you looked at the pie on a customer by customer basis, there's a lot of evidence being posted around um things like uh Stack Overflow and CHEG and a lot of these other people who had purelyformational strategies in audiences that are massively changing their behavior very fast. Like how do you how do you think about like those folks where it seems like there's some data where they're kind of seeing at least their pie eaten very quickly? I'm not seeing with any of our customers their share go down. There might be pockets like developers where it's much better to search in Stack Overflow for developers and queries in Google will go down. I'm not seeing that on the aggregate although it might be happening in the micro level but another example is people are saying AI overviews is causing traffic to go down. We have not actually seen that think we haven't seen that because they already had answer box and a map and all this other stuff and now instead of that it's AI overviews uh so that so you know the share of organic is not really changing. So in aggregate I am not seeing these these new surface or features or stack overflow causing a decrease at the macro level or with companies that we work with but it's possible at the micro level there are certain communities like programming where where you would see that. Yeah that makes sense. Um, we'll we'll wrap up with a couple quick questions here, but uh, how do you balance one really comprehensive page with FAQs answering the potential follow-up questions uh, so that they're cited in AI versus creating a cluster of pages to maximize search, meaning a parent, child, and a bunch of child subtopic pages? Yeah, I would answer that similar to when you have a thousand keywords, how do you decide whether or not to have one page or 10 pages or a thousand pages? And how we do that for search is if Google is showing the same search results for these 10 keywords, you probably need one page for these 10 keywords. If if it's five of these keywords have one page and five have a different page, you probably want to split them. And so, similar with questions, which questions seem to have the same citations? that they all have the same citations that you probably can have one page uh show up for that. Whereas if the citations are varying a lot, you probably need a different page for each of these different questions. Great. Um for folks, we're going to take a couple more quick questions, but uh before if people have to go, there is a little bit of a poll here. If you want to get more data or insights from graphite, you can opt into that with the poll uh there and they will send that to you after the fact. But why don't we wrap up? We talked a little bit about how to rank in um AI, but the other part of this is using AI for content creation. And so Alex asked a little bit about how do you think about use of AI in content creation and AI detection? Yeah, we've spent a lot of time on this. So, let me answer a different question and then answer that. So, that So, in 2008, how do I think about scraped content? So, I'm going to go I'm a shopping, site, and, I'm, going to, go, scrape everyone else's content and then chop it up into review snippets and then repurpose it as my own content and rank. And that worked really well. That's actually how I started my career is we scraped a bunch of shopping sites and we chopped up Amazon reviews and it did really well. and it's free. You don't have to pay for any of that. So, that's great. Uh, and then everyone was doing that. And then Google introduced algorithms saying, "We don't like scrape content anymore." So, if you have scraped content, we're going to downrank you. And the company that I was at, it was actually useful because we were summarizing reviews. So, that's actually useful. But Google says, "We don't care. We only care that it's scraped- because we can't disambiguate you. You know, you scraped and it's fine, but somebody else scraped and it's not fine." Our algorithms don't care about that. we're just going to ding you if you have any scrape content at all. So, I think the exact same thing is true for AI. For AI you could answer, well, it's, you know I, I I, summarized, a, sporting, event, and, uh and I use metadata and it is useful and you know, that makes sense. However, if that works, then everyone's going to do that. And if everyone does that, then all of the results in Google now become a chat GBT response. And then Google is a search engine for chat GBT, which has no utility at all. So for Google to exist, it cannot do that. Same with chat GBT. A chat GBT is a summarization of its own results. Then you have this infinite loop of training on your own output and then you have garbage. So it's impossible for that to lead to a good outcome. But let's just say regardless of whether or not it's a good thing, maybe it still works. So we published this study here where we where we just assess this. So, we took a bunch of we took thousands of keywords and then we found that green is human content. Uh, gray is is AI content. But basically, there's not that much AI content on the web. It's about 12%. And you'll see this very clear correlation. Left is human, right AI, and lower is better. So, there's a clear correlation with you rank higher with uh human content than AI content. We have lots of anecdotal evidence as well where we'll AI generate something and then we'll do okay and then we'll edit it and then the more we edit it the higher it'll rank. So we're seeing that AI content doesn't work that well and human content works much better and I would say that it's it's not possible for AI content to work and that lead to good outcomes or for the or for chat GPT and Google to exist. So they must figure out a way to prevent this from happening. Therefore it's not a good idea. Um, and so we talked a lot about UGC. Um, what are some tactics that you're seeing to get mentioned in Reddit, uh and this is particularly hard question because every community has different rules on posting and moderation and and stuff. And so, um, it's, uh, but I'm interested in what what you're kind of seeing from your perspective. We are just we're doing some of this and we have not mastered it yet. So I cannot give you a master answer but what I will say is that when you want to get into a community you could be a brand and say hey you know I my like I uh you know Caitlyn worked in uh in uh Gen Z shopping. So if you're in a Gen Z network like oh hey my my product is great nobody cares get like get out of the community. But if you get an influencer to promote your brand then that can work. And you know there's an art to getting the influencer and how do you do that in in an authentic way but I think that basically there is and there will become a larger influencer paid influencer community in Reddit and Corora just like there is on Instagram and Tik Tok where you have these influencers promoting products. Same for Reddit and Corora. So that's probably going to be where most of the impact comes from. All right., Well we'll, we'll, wrap, up there. I know there's a couple other kind of minor questions and stuff but we're about five minutes over. Um, first of all, please, uh, go on LinkedIn or something, thank Ethan and Graphite for sharing all this information. Uh, we greatly appreciate it. Uh, there is the poll if you haven't opted in. If you want, um, more insights and data from the Graphite team, go ahead and do that. If you're interested in going deeper on this topic or others, we have the Reforge cohort coming up very shortly starting next week. Just go to reforge.comcourses. Ethan, thank you so much. greatly appreciate you spending time with us uh as always and uh we're getting a lot of claps here so it sounds like uh people enjoyed it as well. So thank you Ethan. Awesome. Thank you so much. Right. Have a good one everybody.