# Marie Haynes — YouTube Transcript 1

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7vn4Wfv2vgo
**Channel:** Marie Haynes
**Date Collected:** April 29, 2026

## Transcript

Hello everyone and welcome back to the agency insider show. I am your host Navnit Koshel. Today we are honored to have Dr. Mary Haynes, a true getter and master of SEO, founder of Mary Haynes Consulting, author, speaker and one of the most respected voice on Google algorithm, EAT and the evolving world of search. [Applause] [Music] [Applause] [Music] Mary, thank you for joining us. Oh, thanks for having me. I'm excited for this chat. Yes. So, uh let's start with your journey and SEO evolution. Uh uh you started your career in a veterinary medicine. Is that correct? It's kind of a weird jump, right? That like why as a veterinarian talking about SEO and now AI, I uh I loved my job as a vet. I really love the diagnostics the best. Uh I really enjoyed surgery as well. Um and one of our clients was the prime minister of Canada's pets actually. So I mean I I I really loved what I did and in 2008 uh just out of for interest's sake I started looking at what Google was doing and got fascinated with the idea that this algorithm that's basically just math can decide which businesses get recommended to people, which websites get recommended. So it was a hobby for me. Uh I made my own little horrible veterinary website, but it it started to make me some money. And uh and then by 2012 um if you remember were you around when the penguin algorithm happened? Yeah. And it was it was devastating to so many businesses. So I was on bed rest at the time with my I was pregnant with my second daughter and um I had all this time to just sort of try to figure it out. And by the time I was ready to go back to work after my maternity leave, I I was making more money just working from my couch. Uh I was really enjoying trying to help all these businesses and and having some good success as well. And so I thought, you know, maybe I'll I'll just stay home and learn about Google. Um and then since then, uh so much has happened. You know, I I started an agency, ran an agency for a few years. Now I'm back to just solo consulting again. Um and uh and then AI happened which uh you know we're going to talk about but it really blew my mind that I can see the world is changing so much and I feel really honored and privileged to uh you know be able to be one of the ones who figures this out and helps people adapt. So yeah kind of a a different career tra trajectory. Right. Right. Right. So I had a guest on my show who were teacher and came into SEO. So yours is one of the most unique one I have to but I believe most of the SEO we practitioners uh I mean including myself are an accidental SEO. It's not a choice it just so all we've been doing I mean I've been doing SEO for now 23 years. So that is why I also got across accidentally itself. And were you what were you before you were in SEO? Uh I I was doing my MBA at that time while doing research. I came across Alta Vista. It was just I came across Google and then I put my website for four pages testing out. Okay. What is it? Just like you put and then I got started getting called do you do SEO and I learned never to say no. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Try stuff. Yeah. Amazing. Do you remember? Do you remember Excite? I used to use Excite all the time. uh and in my in vet school I would be always in the computer lab uh trying to understand like how does this thing work long time ago so wow 23 years yeah right so now uh your early work on Google's penguin algorithm made you a sought after consultant uh now looking back what do you think made you so effective at decoding Google updates when so uh few others could I think the answer to that is that I've I've always been willing to share my thoughts. So, um, at the time I was in the SEO chat forums, which they don't exist anymore. Uh, but, uh, it was such a a great forum where we would just there were a bunch of us. I I was just chatting the other day with Nick Loy. uh I don't know if you're if you know him, but we were good friends back in 2008 in trying to learn these algorithms in in the SEO chat forms and we would just put out theories, you know, and and so I'm very good at seeing patterns and uh at first we didn't even know that Penguin was about links. Uh and so it seemed really obvious to me that the sites that were and I wasn't getting paid to look at these sites. It was just out of a hobby. I'd look at their uh I've been paying for hrefs since like for many many many years and I would look at their backlinks and uh and see that like wow almost all these sites had backlinks that were totally made for SEO that like you know had keyword anchors and uh and and you could see that it was about links. So what I did was I first started with penalty removal with manual actions which was different than the algorithmic penguin uh um action. Um and penalty removal some guy came to me on the forum and said I'll pay you $300 if you can remove this unnatural links penalty. And I was like no no I'm a vet. This is just a hobby. Like I don't do this for money. Um and but I thought well you know I'm sitting at home nothing to do. I might as well. And in doing that, I I had to review all of the links pointing to his website. And then uh and then I had another one come to me after that and reviewed all their links. And in since then, I've reviewed millions and millions of links of penalized websites, whether it was manually or with an algorithm. And it's really easy to see the the patterns of uh sites that exist, you know, just because SEO gave us uh this this way to make money. Um and so what I did was every time I removed a penalty, my clients would say, "Well, what do I do now?" Like, "How do I how do I rank in a way that's not going to get me penalized?" And so I started collecting information. So whenever somebody published a blog post that my clients could learn from, then I made a note on it. Whenever Google said something official, I made notes on that. Um, John Mueller's helps for for years. I have six Google Docs full of all of the notes from those helps. Um, just trying to get little hints of of what we could do. And I started a newsletter uh to share. And that's what I think I think if anybody is watching this and like I want to, you know, I want to be known. I I never set out to be known. I I just wanted to help people. And so my newsletter uh I would just share everything that I learned and I still do that today although there's more AI focus um and yeah so I think that just learning sharing and I also because of the nature of my consulting I've always presented myself as well let's experiment you know um and so my clients always know that there's like a little bit of risk in uh you know maybe it won't work maybe you know we'll try this theory and maybe it does work and and that you know not every SEO has that um freedom to to just go and and and do whatever, right? So, so yeah. So, I think I just had the right circumstances of uh learning, sharing, and having some success. Uh and then it just kind of took off from there. Okay. Just a just a follow-up questions. Do you think this works? Do I think which works? This Oh, disavow. Ah, not now. No, for a while. Yes. So in the if you remember before 2016 from 2012 to 2016 Penguin was very penalizing and uh and it was the only way you could get out of Penguin is to thoroughly disavow. So now I only recommend disavowing if you have a manual action for unnatural links or there are some sites where like you feel what we used to say is you're about to get a manual action because you can see like it's just the only reason you ranked was because you made thousands of links that like were manipulating Google. And um it's been a long time since I've seen any evidence that disavowing has helped. Uh, and I actually can't remember the last time that I personally recommended this vowing or uh I did open the tool up recently, but uh but no, it was it was a fun uh thing to be an expert on for for a while, but not today. I don't think it has much value. I agree. I agree. I mean, I remember in 2018 we got hit by a negative SEO attack where we had like almost 1 million links built and our rankings actually tanked. Interesting. I was talking to Gary in Bali and I said this is what happened. He says I don't believe it. I said it does happen. He said okay send me your Google search console access. I said I'm not going to do that because you're going to dissect everything links which happened. I said I'm good. Yeah. Yeah. I you know I mean that's a whole other topic. Negative SEO. I have seen one maybe two cases where I was really convinced that links uh took a site down and they were many years ago. I I really think today uh Google uses page rank in a totally different way. Um and links they're really like if I can see the patterns if I've looked at millions of links doing link audits and and disavows and I can like look at a link pattern and go oh yeah this was made for SEO you know oh this one was an attempt at negative SEO. Google sees patterns like that's all that their machine learning systems do is find the patterns and learn to get good at predicting what is uh what is real and what's not. So uh yeah so I I don't think disavow is uh a good practice today. Yeah. So the only practice which we find makes more sense is when you see the rankings going down go put it all the back links in HFS see if anybody any of the links have uh any of the domains have traffic less than 100 just get those link removes all that's all we do I mean I don't think anything else matters so we just I mean even that I think Google probably just ignores those but uh it's hard to say it's super hard to prove too uh because you know you got to share all your data with everyone or If you're creating a site to do a test on, well, it's not a real site to start with, you know. So, uh it's tricky. Definitely. Right. Right. Now, uh so how has your perspective on SEO changed over the years, especially as Google algorithm have become more AIdriven? Yeah. So, I mentioned I had an agency and we and you met some of my team members. Um we had a fantastic time. I mean what we did we we had 12 people that all we did was do site audits and site reviews and for a period of time we had incredible success. So today, everybody has heard of EAT. Uh back in 2017, that's when I first started hiring team members. Uh and it was just EAT. Then there were things that you could do. You know, you could you could add structured data, you could um even, you know, beef up your author bios, actually hire people with expertise, all of these things to um improve uh and we had many many sites that uh saw nice improvements. Then um I want to say like between 2020 maybe 2021 we were seeing fewer and fewer returns. Now some of that is because sites that were lacking eat and just surviving based on SEO knowledge were were knocked out of the SERs. So what was left was like actual legitimate businesses, right? Um but something else was happening. So, when we do our site reviews, and even today when I do my site reviews, what I do is I look at who did Google's algorithms elevate at the time that the site I'm reviewing declined, right? That's what they tell you to do in their helpful content guidance. And it was super obvious that there was one specific pattern uh that and and it was something that you can't fix with SEO. And honestly, it was that the page that Google was elevating was in some way more helpful. Now, we can argue about that like, you know, because I can look at a page and go, "Well, I think this is helpful." And you might not think it's helpful, but Google's got data, right, that shows we saw in the DOJ versus Google trial that um uh nav boost that uh you know user engagement signals are used like Google can tell when people click back to the search results and um and it's not a straightforward black and white algorithm like they they have all these signals to use to determine whether people are actually finding these pages helpful. So businesses, we'd say, um, here's the problem. You know, you have this content that was written, you have so much content that was written by people lacking expertise that is like essentially the same as everybody else's content on the internet. Why would Google want to rank you well when in the past we had tricks that could do that? You know, we could get links, we could we could optimize certain things and make it look to Google like this was the best page. So, what happened was then in 2022, uh, Danny Sullivan from Google contacted me and he said, "We have this new change coming out. Can we talk to you about it?" And I'm like, "Of course." Like, it's not every day that Google wants to talk to you about an algorithm up there, right? And uh, so that was they didn't say the name at first. Uh, they said they were going to call it the SEO first update. Instead, they it was Barry Schwarz convinced them not to do that. They named it the helpful content update. And what happened was I don't think it actually targeted sites that used SEO, but what happened is as Google used AI and machine learning to um predict which pages people were likely to find helpful, then things that used to work in the name of SEO became less and less helpful. And so that's why what we were seeing was these sites that thrived off of um one of the most common things that we saw in sites that were impacted by HCU was uh they'd take all the people also asks which is not a bad thing to do like you can get inspiration from those uh and then they would like write whole blog posts based on the people also asks which in the past would look good to machines because it's it's relevant it's it's you know semantic relevant it's similar in any ways um but not necessarily the thing that's the most helpful for people. So what uh you asked you know what what was the biggest change or you know was the even downfall of uh SEO was was AI that AI is being used in uh many machine learning systems in Google uh to predict what users are likely to find helpful which means that there are fewer and fewer SEO tricks and tactics that can be used which is really really hard. So, so I was saying to clients, you know, you need to invest in original content and and these are all sites that had, you know, plummeted. Their revenue had dropped. Uh, and so it's very hard to sell people on, uh, you know, go out and spend millions of dollars on, uh, original content, change your whole business model, this and that. Uh, and so a lot of SEO driven sites uh, declined. um while you know real businesses that uh have the money to invest in uh I don't want to say real businesses because those websites were real uh businesses to to them but real world businesses that had uh a presence outside of search had a much better chance and I think after HCU the only thing which helped was that uh Google started introducing a factor called brand authority which means that if you are being searched as a brand which now of course people try to manipulate as well but we seen very direct correlation. If there's a brand, there are lesser chances that you you would get a better rankings. Right. It's Yeah, it's interesting because I don't know that Google's ever like specifically said there's brand authority. I know Eric Schmidt when he was CEO of Google said uh brands are how Google sorts out the cesspool. Um that was many years ago though. I I really do think uh a lot of what we call brand authority is really just people recognizing your brand. Uh, and so you're going to have um, you know, of course Amazon has a better chance of ranking over maybe a a shop that has better products, but uh, it's because people recognize the brand and then shop with who they recognize. Um, and then, you know, there was an age, I think we're just ending in this age where people could try to manipulate brand authority. Uh, and you could manipulate EAT that you could uh, create these fake authors and um, you know. Yeah. which like it, you know, has fewer thankfully fewer and fewer returns now. Um, but there's always going to be SEOs trying to manipulate. I mean, think this way. SEO's job is to manipulate. I mean, honestly, well, maybe it's I mean, it's to that's actually a really profound thing to say. I I think that SEO is but end of the day, I'm trying to rank my client website, trying to beat I'm trying to beat the system. So, I can sugar whatever, but that's what I'm doing. I mean, I can sugarcoat. Okay, I'm trying to give helpful content, blah, blah, but tomorrow another update comes and I'm back to trying to fix how I can quickly get the client. Yeah, I mean, you're understanding how the algorithms work and then reacting to it, right? And uh yeah, I think manipulation because the word manipulation is in Google spam guidelines, right? Like if you're manipulating, you're going against the guidelines, which like you know what, if it works for your client, that's cool, but there's always risk there. But I think you can still do SEO without manipulating. You know, you can optimize uh user experience, you can optimize page speed, you can um you can create like truly content that's like so original and unique that uh but is really hard to do, you know, because we I I actually feel like Google has used us as content creators and SEOs. Um because for years we had this opportunity that we could uh you know take the world's information, package it into blog posts and then monetize it either with affiliate links or with ads or whatever. And um and now Google's got all the world's information and all it really needs is like the new interesting original stuff. That's why it's getting harder and harder to uh uh to rank in ways that aren't manipulation. Right. Right. Right. Right. All right. So um enough we talk about the rank manipulations. We're going to move to another section which is of course a hot topic these days is the AI. So uh the rise of AI agents and changing web that's what we got this segment is now AI agents are being called the next big revolution in how we interact with the web. Uh for those new to the concept how would you define an AI agent and what makes them fundamentally different from the traditional automation tool? So, an AI agent is um AI that can take action. It doesn't have to be necessarily autonomous like you can you can tell it what action to take, but it can take action on your behalf. Um and uh it can take action even when you're not uh present there. And so, one of the examples of an AI agent that many of us have used is the deep research that comes in Gemini and in chat GPT and and in Grock as well. And that is not just doing search, it's actually browsing the web. So when you research a topic, it will browse the web. It'll find a link and go, "Oh, that actually I need to find more about that." And it'll click that link and um and it will act almost like an assistant on your behalf. So um have you used uh uh OpenAI's operator yet? Uh yes, I think I had used operator, right? It's pretty wild, right? Yes, it it's a it's an agent that um uses So, basically, you give it a command and it uses a browser somewhere in California uh that um will take actions on my behalf. So, I can ask it do a Google search for my client's keywords, tell me what SER features are there and whether they rank in those SER features, and then make a report for me. There's uh you know, my assistant goes off, does this work? Saves me a ton of time. Um I uh I'm going to IO uh very soon and I um asked operator to find me flights and then I uh did it myself and I came up with the same flight that operator found me and and then I asked it for hotels same thing it and then it said do you want me to book the hotel for you which I was a little bit nervous about doing so I didn't let it do it but but very soon that will be common place that a lot of the things you know whether it's shopping whether uh it's researching for information. Um, instead of us using search, we're going to send our agent. And our agent might be Gemini, it might be chatbt, it might be like some personal agent that we've coded ourselves um on open- source software. Uh, and and that agent will go out and gather what we need and then bring it back to us basically. So, OpenAI operator is uh so you can you can only use it if you're one of the enthusiastic people that pay the $200 a month for uh for OpenAI's plans. Um but uh soon Google is coming out with their own version which I haven't heard many people talk about. So Sunder Pachai mentioned uh CEO of Google mentioned project mariner is what it's called and the difference is instead of using uh an external browser somewhere in another city it actually uses your browser and will do things on your behalf and in a talk recently Sunder PCI said that within two to three years um agents like project mariner will be deeply embedded into our workflows that's kind of hard to to grasp right that like um you that I'm going to just have this assistant that can go off and do things for me. So that's one thing, the browser agent, but then agents will start to do things for your business. So Google announced agent space which is for large enterprises that um it starts off with like you have all your documents and your data. Um and maybe you have an agent that is your onboarding agent and you hire a new employee and the onboarding agent coordinates uh talking with the HR agent and the payroll agent. Um, and you know, all of those, they might have humans somewhere involved, but a lot of the work like all the paperwork and the stuff that like you really don't need a human to do paperwork, uh, is going to be done by the agents. So, that's agent space. And then they also announced uh, customer engagement suite, which I don't know if you saw the video of the guy from Google who was buying stuff at um, a garden center. And uh and then this chatbot comes up and it's like a real life sounding lifelike sounding voice. And the chatbot's like, "Uh, oh, I think you have the wrong soil in your your cart. Can you show me what flowers you're planting?" And they switch to video and the guy shows his patunia. And the chatbot's like, "Oh, no, no, you need a different soil for that." And like, so it's it's changing how we're going to interact with e-commerce websites. But even more exciting beyond that see and this is like too much to to to comprehend almost is the business agents. So Google uh released just recently agent development kit where anybody can build these agents that uh accomplish tasks and um they can use tools so they can connect with any API you know maybe search console or uh whatever and um and then they can do stuff on their behalf. So I could have multiple agents like let's say I have a content optimizing agent and I have a traffic drop assessment agent and it's basically you know just prompts that I've put in and tools that I've I've coded uh and it connects with different APIs and whatever. Then you let's say you have a difficult traffic drop you're assessing right now you could reach out to me and you know we could consult and one-on-one but if I have an agent I could consult with thousands of people you know in a day uh using all my strategy and my advice and so soon businesses Google says in their recent blog post that every business will have multiple agents and we will have they developed something called the agentto agent framework which I think is um how the web is going to completely change that much of what is done today uh will not need humans that it'll be my agent talking to your agent um and your agent has access to all these like you have your whole list of agents that like you use in your workflow um and my agent might be like well you know what that would actually be helpful for Marie so I'm going to I'm going to connect with that agent and there will be a marketplace uh where we can charge for those agents So I'll stop there because there's a lot of a lot of stuff but the the entirety of the web uh is is soon about to change. So so just so so so now uh of course so how do you see AI agents changing the way user interacts with website and will the web be designed more for agents than for humans in the coming years? Yeah, it's interesting because Google tells us that we're supposed to create content for people first, right? people first is what the uh uh what the helpful content um updates were all about. And yet I really think that we're moving to a world where most interaction on the web is done with uh with agents. And so um yeah, there's this controversy right now over is optimizing for language models uh any different than SEO? And we we you know, we haven't really decided on what we're going to call that. And um and I think the reason why we haven't decided is because we haven't actually seen what this new we're like people in the time when when electricity first started being used. You know, we can see like wow it can make lights up when like we could never foresee what you and I are doing right now, right? So how do we plan for this world that like we can't comprehend just yet? Um, but I do think that what our our I mean, as long as there are businesses that need to be found, there's a need for people like us who advise on how to do that. And I think a lot of what we do today, optimizing for, uh, for people, for design, uh, things like that will switch to being optimal for for agents. Uh, and so you want to make it so that your your data that is important to people is easy to find. this agentto agent protocol. Every agent has a card um it's just like a little name tag basically and it's in JSON uh that says here's here's what I do um and what I can accomplish. And so I think optimizing your agent is going to be something that's important. And I think uh it's going to be difficult for a lot of businesses, but also it'll open up great opportunities for for those who understand what's going on because what I predict is going to happen is right now of all the people that are using AI like pretty much everybody I know has used AI in some source some sense, right? and like Google, Apple, OpenAI, all these companies are putting billions of dollars into AI. Yet, I don't know too many people that are actually making real money, you know, from from this new technology. So, like there's a disconnect there and I think it's because these companies know what's coming. So, I think there's going to be a tipping point where people start to make real money off of AI agents. And when that happens, you're going to see that those businesses uh do extremely well. And then it'll be like um the businesses who don't want to accept AI, who don't want to have an AI agent, uh will be kind of like if we try to operate without a phone today, you know, like you would be behind. So, um so I think we're going to see a tipping point where all of a sudden there's huge money to be made. And uh but it's so vague right now because like we only know a little piece of uh of what the future holds. Yeah. Well, just just a day back uh OpenAI introduced shopping in their chat. So that's something and then of course the agent is bound to follow on, right? Yeah. And it's interesting. I was checking that out uh and the shopping results in OpenAI. So, we know OpenAI uses Bing's index, but the shopping results were not ranked in the same order for me, at least for the the things that I searched. So, it's going to become very personalized and uh chatbt um has memory and they recently announced that now there's memory across all your chats. Uh and then Gemini as well. Well, now it's just one version of Gemini that can access your your search history if you give it permission. Um, but eventually that's what our agents are going to be is like, you know, so if I'm out in my garden and uh I'm trying to figure out what fertilizer I need, you know, my AI agent knows what plants I've planted, you know, we've had all these conversations on how to plant them. And um and so when I'm like, "Okay, I need to buy something to put in this bed here." And also, we haven't talked about wearables. Like all the AI is going to be in glasses. So, I'll be out in my garden just looking at the garden going, "What do I need?" And, you know, my AI, whether it's Chachi or Gemini, is going to be like, "Well, you know, the leaves look a little yellow and uh I'll put all the things together. It probably needs fertilizer. Here's the products I recommend uh that are closest to you. Do you want me to buy one?" And then, you know, I haven't touched a computer, but I can say to my agent, "Yeah, sure. Get me, you know," and it's like, "Oh, Walmart has it." And they deliver. And then that afternoon I have fertilizer in my hand. So that's a different web, right? That uh uh that um we're optimizing for what you know for for for machines, right? So so so of course then I mean websites will become uh less relevant if AI agent has to create content for users or is there another way you see it? I think a lot of websites will be less relevant. Um I mean I'm trying to think of what like I I still surf the web today but more and more I get information from AI like even uh so in my newsletter if I'm trying to write news stories about what's happening in AI I have this whole routine I start off in Google news and then I go to social media and uh and then I end up on on websites um but lately what's helping me is both chatbt and grock that I will say you know what's the what's interesting in AI and it gives me the whole story right there. Now, I still go to the website because I need to reference it in my in my newsletter, but I I don't think we're far from the day where the vast majority of what we currently get off of a screen on a website uh we will not want um from there. Now, um you know, if you're a store, I there will be people that still want to browse like uh but you know, maybe that's done through our agent as well. like if I'm wanting to plant a certain type of I have this arch that I want to plant seeds on, right? And so, yeah, I might want to go to a store and browse what you have, but even better would be if my agent can say, "Well, there's five stores near you and here's what all of them have and I can browse through my agent and I didn't have to go to their website." Right? So, yeah, I think a lot of what we know about websites is is going to change. Now, could this lead to a new SEO matrix, for example, optimizing for an agent evolution versus a human search behavior? I I 100% believe so. Yes. Yeah. And again, I think it's too hard to predict. It's not um there's all this talk about, you know, are we optimizing for chatbt? I had somebody contact me today to say like, how can you make me rank better in chat GPT? I it's so hard because it's essentially gathering all of the signals that it has available to it and then determining for each individual user what's best and we won't be optimizing for keywords like um you know nobody's going to well maybe people type something like best running shoes into chat GBT but really what's going to happen is I'm going to have a conversation saying like I'm going to start running and you know help me figure this out and oh by the way what shoes do I get? You know, right? Uh and so like keywords are are we're going to have a real problem in trying to track uh what's and try to track and optimize because we don't know what people are searching and I can't track it right. Yeah, exactly. I I think attribution is going to be a nightmare. I mean it already is but it already is. My clients think how can I be in here in here and I says so it's difficult because we have to tell them that it's not searching it has its database so it's it's not a real life thing it has it's not a search engine it's just taking a data from Bing or whatever it is in their database so I can't switch it on overnight it's not going to happen like that yeah what I like to do is look at like who is getting recommended um for the like I'll have a conversation about my client's product and then say, "Can you recommend some clients?" And then um and then you can ask the LLM like, "Why did you recommend them over this site?" Uh but the thing is that it's not always going to be 100% right. So, you know, it might recommend it might just make something up, right? But you can get ideas and um and a lot of the time what it's recommending are brands like we just talked about. Uh and that's tough you know like I I so how do you get seen amongst the brands like you basically have to build a reputation uh as the the go-to place for this type of product or information um which is brand building uh essentially. Yeah. Because then there is no going to be 10 results. It's just going to be one result. So that's uh the challenge. Yeah. uh and and lately I also seen that when you are speak uh uh chatting with chat GPT it doesn't end the conversation it always keeps it open okay how about this so I've seen it in last one month that it's not ending the conversation it keeps on suggesting one or the other thing keep I mean when you try with any other chat any other LLM they just end what you ask they just end it but here in chat GPT the difference is it keeps on asking okay I wrote this. Do you want me to create social media for you? Do you want me to do that? And it actually prompts. Okay. It's just gonna take me a It's just gonna take a minute. It's like that. It's it's with that brings up a good point because uh I don't know if you've played with Google's new AI mode much, but it's an experiment in search labs. So when AI overviews first came out, uh they started as an experiment in labs and now there's AI mode and it's different than AI overviews. It's a whole new search engine essentially. So if I search for best running shoes, um right now in search, uh you know, Google's going to understand the keywords in the query, the concepts that are important, and then find me websites that are are likely to be relevant. In AI mode, what happens is they use something called a query fan out technique and they don't they they figure out what is your next question going to be, you know, uh, and some of that is based on your personal history. So, if I ask best running shoes, it's going to know the city that I live in. It's going to know, uh, you know, some of my search history, perhaps even eventually be personalized to like understanding what kind of colors I like, what like like everything about me, right? And so AI mode produces a gigantic AI overview type answer um and links to websites, but it's completely different than uh than what you see in traditional search. And you have the ability to ask follow-up questions. So I think that AI mode and Gemini will essentially merge. Um, and I think that, uh, for those who use Google Assistant, if you have Android devices or in your car or on your television, um, that this is going to be the new search is, uh, kind of like starting off as AI and then when needed, we'll show you a website, uh, which is going to be a big change. Yeah. And I don't know really how Google is going to monetize and how SEO is going to fit in the picture. So that's still a little hazy for me. I'm not worried about Google monetizing that Sergey Brin uh had a thing a little while back. He was at a hackathon for Gemini and I don't know his exact words so I don't want to misquote him but uh he said for 25 years we've had this great deal where we've given people search for free uh paid by advertising and it sort of implied to me I don't think advertising is going to end like there's there's obviously it's Google's biggest revenue generator um but uh he said if the product is good enough and he was talking about Gemini at the time if the product is good enough then the business model will sort itself out. Now, if we go back to this idea of agents, if every business has multiple agents, those multiple agents need to run on AI. And so, I need to be buying uh compute from Google. I need to be paying for the AI that uh is powering all of my AI agents. And we already saw I I don't know the exact numbers, but in Google's last earnings call, uh the revenue from cloud is going up and up and up every every earnings call. Um, and so I I do think first we're going to see that uh AI becomes a bigger source of revenue than advertising. And second, that advertising completely changes. that um AI will make it so that uh instead of me seeing a banner ad for buy these running shoes uh you know it's going to be like hey do you want to talk to our running shoe agent who uh you know can can walk you through the whole process or our our shoe fitting agent that you know you just put a put your foot up and it and it tells you what's best like um we're in for a whole new world of interactivity within advertising so a lot is going to change right now let's Let's come back to what today we have is and uh specifically Google AI overviews and changing search behaviors. We're going to this segment we're going to talk more about that. Now you have analyzed Google AI overviews extensively and Google's new AI mode is already changing the look and feel of search results with longer more citations heavy answers and a focus on local intent. Now what are the most important changes for SEO and marketers to understand here? So AI overviews right now the vast majority that I've seen have been informational and we see all these studies that say oh when AI overviews are there your clicks are going to reduce. There are other studies though that show that if you're linked within the AI overview for a lot of queries your clicks actually improve. Um but I've heard one thing consistently with the clients that I've analyzed AI overviews for and that's that it's not really affecting their bottom line. And so a lot of the time the AI overview answers the questions that have common knowledge in the world. And yes, they might draw it from your your website just like a featured snippet would would draw an answer. It's really just a long featured snippet. Um but so far uh in the clients that I have, AI overviews have not really made a big difference. Like it's almost like a vanity thing that I want to be the site that's linked to in there. And we've done some tests. I I managed to get uh some sites in AI overviews and then Google changed the whole it's constantly changing how they're doing it. Uh and then we dropped out again. Um and so right now for AI overviews, I'd just be looking at uh where do we appear? There's a bunch of tools that can can tell you that. Um and do we appear for any queries that really matter to our revenue? Um, that will change though because Google has said that they're uh they're they're going to be introducing commercial queries and I think they need to get it right. Like the biggest news about AI overviews is the mistakes that they make and this is a part of how AI works. It works by reinforcement learning which means you need to you need to do well to be like they're not it's not like we always tell them oh great answer Google like but we tell them with our clicks you know if we if an AI overview is good and then we interact with the websites that it gives us like that's a sign that it did well um if it's bad uh like somebody going to do another search or um and a lot of these ones that are bad are people just putting in nonsense queries that like nobody would have searched for anyways. Uh, and that teaches the AI overviews to to become better. So, as they get better and as Google's language models get better, one day we'll look back at I I think we'll look back at like laughingly at at how bad they were. So, when they get good, Google's going to start to be putting in more commercial queries. I've seen a couple of them where uh it was a product review. So, you know, if you were like looking comparing bicycles, um the AI AI overview actually showed like five different bicycles uh and links where you can buy them uh as well. And so that's when we need to be monitoring what's happening. And the tough thing is like they're so hard to monitor for multiple reasons. Like number one, they change repeatedly. Um Google changes how the tools can access them. like uh they change the the make the markup of the you know the way they're using JavaScript or or whatever. Um, and then also the way that people search is changing. Like I find myself if I'm using AI mode, I'm doing much longer queries uh than I would, you know, uh, with very specific like I want to if right now if I searched on Google for like I want a bike that's this color, this many speed, you know, it's a mountain bike, it's good on whatever, like you're not going to get a good search result. But in AI mode, you can. So, uh, so that's going to be really hard for us to to monitor. I I don't really know the answer to how we, uh, how we track what's going on in there. So, what I'm advising, um, my clients and the people who, uh, learn from from me and with me in the search bar, my community, um, is, uh, just monitor monitor what's happening. Take a bunch of screenshots, monitor what's changed. Um and that's kind of the best we can do right now so that when it does start impacting our our bottom line uh then we have a little bit more insight um than than others who haven't been monitoring. Now uh uh how do you see AI mode impacting traditional blue blue link SEO strategies? Should agencies rethink how they approach content and visibility? So AI mode tries to find content that meets the entire search journey. And one of the things that I've seen, again, it keeps changing though. I I was going to do a video on this one uh site that I've been monitoring and rank nowhere in search and then they were ranking number one in AI mode for a term that brings them a lot of money. Uh and then uh and then the next day when I went to shoot the video, it had changed again. So they they weren't there. But that post that made them a lot of money. um walks the it's a travel query and it takes you through like everything you'd want to know. Um not just here's the top 10 places to visit in this city. Like those posts don't do well anymore because there's, you know, many people writing about the top 10 places. But what I want to know is like what are the what do most people do? like where do they go and what are the super interesting places and what's the weather going to be like and like like a bunch of things. So, so if you're trying to optimize for AI mode, first monitor what is showing up um and start to look at what searcher needs they meet. Uh there's a a guy from Bing named Frederick Daboo who a couple of years ago he did an interview at a conference and uh there's a very short clip on YouTube where he said SEOs are going to need to change from keyword research to intent research and that's the key really is understanding what your audience wants and then meeting their need because a lot of what the way we do SEO today is looking at what currently ranks and trying to be a little bit better and and and you know Google doesn't need more of what currently ranks. So one of the things is finding the gaps. Um there's a a great patent from Google on information gain and uh I really think if you look at the search results whether it's in AI mode, AI overviews, whatever, it's interesting to see how often the results will meet a slightly different need. Like if it's a recipe, like, oh, this one is vegan and this one is uh, you know, cheap ingredients and and this one's quick to make. Uh, and it kind of makes sense, right? Because like if I go to the library and I want 10 books on like 10 of the same recipe, I want uh a variety of things that are that's going to help me. So, so that's what I would say is like really focus on um looking at user intent, not just transactional versusformational, but like deep what does your customer want to know and then meeting that need. All right. Now, uh given your expertise uh in EAT, how do you think Google AIdriven results will evaluate and surface trustworthy content? Yeah. So, let me tell you a funny story. I So, I was at Google IO last year and I didn't know anybody there that's because it's their developer conference and I'm like I play with code but I'm not a developer. I'm like why did you invite me here? And I sat down for lunch and this guy sits next to me and I thought he looks kind of familiar. Well, it's Jeff Dean, the head of AI at Google, the guy who wrote like hundreds of papers on ranking on like of all the people to talk to. It was just fascinating. And so we had this big long talk about multiple things about the brain and about AI. And then at the end of the conference, I saw him again and I asked him this question. I thought it was kind of unfair to ask, but I was like, what do I do with my life? Because I spent all these years studying EAT, now EAT. And I don't think my life's purpose, forgive me like if this it belittles anyone, but I don't think my life's purpose is to just make one website rank higher than another website. Like I think for most SEOs we're training for something. We're we're we're you know we're understanding something that very few in the world understand. And the reason is this is where we're going to get a little bit kind of crazy sounding here is that right now we're in this transition where like agents are going to start doing things for us. You've probably heard of um uh Neuralink, Elon Musk's brain implants, right? Which sounds kind of crazy, like would you go out and get a brain implant? I mean, some people I ask are like, "Yeah, I would totally do that." But like, most of us are not going to get brain surgery to put AI in our brains. Um although just last week, somebody developed a brain computer interface that just goes under the skin on your scalp. You don't need brain surgery and it can interpret your thoughts. Where I'm going with this is that we are moving towards the day where AI is integrated with our our thoughts. And it is so important for us to be able to trust what comes in and goes out like via because I was thinking the other day about Chachi PT's memory. It's going to get mixed in with my memory. Like the other day I asked Chachi PT uh what was that recipe you gave me for muscles and I can't remember what the ne the last last ingredient was and then chat on my screen said oh yeah don't forget the coconut milk or whatever it was um soon like for people who choose to to have some type of an implant some type even if it's a wearable even if it's just glasses it will just become part of our normal thinking pattern that we're like oh what was that last ingredient, click, let me check my AI memory and we sort of merge together where like AI is a part of what I do. So if that happens, which I can't see why it wouldn't, it's the progression of where we're going. It's so important that what is given to us in AI is is is trustworthy, is is good. So Google has been developing this concept of eat since before the days of Panda that came out in 2011. Um and you you asked like how will they know with AI? I think that EAT is um many many signals that are being used. Uh and um they use machine learning to continually refine upon uh how they do that. So I have this theory. I don't know if this is true. This might be like another uh crazy Tim Foil hat theory, but for a while um AI generated content was ranking like really well. And you could you could spam out thousands of AI generated posts on like you know you take a topic have AI make a topical map for you produce a million posts and you're printing money basically, right? It's much harder to do now. But um I actually believe that Google allowed us, not us, I didn't do it, allowed SEOs to to do that so that they could train and learn because they needed like you you don't need like just 10 examples. You need millions of examples of what's good and what's uh legitimate, honest, trustworthy, um and what's just, you know, made to make money on the internet. And so anyways, I I like to ask how is Google going to determine what's trustworthy? Really, it's machine learning. It's seeing examples of good and bad. Uh the quality raers uh do that in their rating. Now, they've been Did you see the thing uh where um John Mueller had said uh there was a slide that said, you know, AI quality raers are now going to be asked whether content is completely AI generated. But the part that didn't get highlighted in that quote from the Raider guidelines is not it doesn't matter that it's AI generated. It's AI generated with little to no effort um and not helpful to people. Uh and so um the quality raers are there to sort of uh assess whether Google's algorithms are producing things that are trustworthy. So I don't I I don't think I completely answered that because like I don't think if we knew the secret sauce as to how Google determines that then you know that would be dangerous. Uh but they're continually improving on that and the reason I believe is because like one day AI like it's kind of crazy to think that AI will mesh with our personhood but it it already is happening. Like imagine living your life without your phone. Uh you know it's a part of you essentially, right? So it soon will be. Yeah. I I mean we all are using AI so much. I know that. Right. Uh you talked about quality rator guidelines. Now what were the biggest surprises for you in the January 25 quality guidelines update especially around AI generated content? Yeah. So they mentioned a lot more about AI. they kind of gave it a definition of of what AI generated content was and then they mentioned in several places uh AI generated content. However, the whole point it was always about the effort put into it um and the like the intention behind it basically. Uh and so Google's got a big long blog post on what's acceptable for using AI and they don't they basically say it doesn't matter who created it um as long as it's helpful. So uh whenever I create content, every piece of content I create to some extent is AI has helped me create it. But I rarely just say go write me an article on this um you know like that's that's just going to regurgitate what's already known. But I might say like take this research article and pull out what's important and then put it into layman's terms so I can put it in my article. That type of thing. So the raider guidelines, yes, the raiders are being asked to uh uh to look at um whether they think something was generated by AI, but really it's about whether it's lowquality. The the other thing that was surprising to me in the Raider guidelines was there was new stuff added about filler content. Um and you see that in recipe sites and one of the examples they gave was a recipe site that had like loads of stuff before you actually get down to the the thing you came for. Um, I don't think that's related to AI, but uh, very important. I think we're gonna whenever something's added to the Raider guidelines, usually within a couple of updates, we see changes uh, in the core systems that reflect what the raiders were being asked to to look at. So, it's worth paying attention to. Yeah, that that's a good point because otherwise, why are they being asked to look into? Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. A couple of updates ago in the Raider guidelines they uh updated uh guidance on forums and then when we saw uh so I think that change was made in November last year and then the most recent core update in March many forum sites uh were impacted and so it makes sense that and I I've looked at quite a few and it's really interesting to see like people were like oh Google loves Reddit and therefore Reddit's going to win for everything but when you look at the actual posts for Reddit that got boosted above um another forum and you look at like how well it actually meets the need that people wanted. Uh the Reddit post is usually better. So I think Google's getting better at figuring out which content uh is the one that people would want to land on to get their question answered. In fact, so is the case that now a lot of people append their queries with word Reddit just to get the right type of results. So if in a hurry, I would rather put Reddit and read that thread rather than going and getting all through artificial content. Yeah. Exactly right. And I think a lot of us have written content assuming that we have these readers, these magical readers that read every word that we write, you know. Um and that was good for us like for SEO for many years because search engines read every word on the page and and figure out what to prioritize, figure out what the page is about. But if you think of like how we search on the web, we have very short attention spans and we if we're trying to find something, if I'm standing in front of my fridge and I'm like, "What do I make with chicken today?" And I um and I look at a few websites and I, you know, I just quickly see like, "Is my answer on this page?" No, I'll go to another website. Actually for for recipes though I use AI for almost all my recipes now which I I it's sad to say because I have a lot of friends who uh create recipe websites but uh but Gemini is really good at making recipes. Wow. I'll try myself. I I I still am going to the websites and using the recipes. Yeah, you should try it. It's like I I think I've had one I've probably made 300 things with like I go between Gemini Chat JBT and Grock. Grock makes pretty good. Well, they all make good recipes. And I had one bread recipe from Gemini that didn't work out, but like pretty much everything else was amazing. And then you can say, you know, oh, I want this but with healthier ingredients or with, you know, my my favorite thing is to say, make it as tasty as possible. And then it goes back and it's like, oh, you could add Dijon mustard and you could add this and that. And like it it's really a neat experience if you if you can trust uh that you're going to get a good result from it. That's the only thing my my kids going to eat, so I I don't know how it's going to end up. So, I just try to play safe. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Understandable. Yeah. But, uh, no, I I don't know. Maybe I'm the only one who does that, but I I have had great success with the AI generated recipes. All right. All right. Now, uh, given the evolving landscape, do you think authority will matter more than traditional backlink profiles in ranking decisions? I I think that Google's use of backlinks has changed dramatically over the years. Um I think with every single core update, backlinks become less and less important. It's not that they mean nothing. Uh but Google gets better at figuring out um I mean why do we get links? Links are a vote for our content. And uh for a while you could you know you could create all these micro sites. you could create your own uh blog network and then link to your content and and it would fool Google into thinking, oh, lots of people think this content is about this keyword anchor that keeps getting used. Um, you know, like I think we're beyond those days. I think that links uh work for a couple of reasons. Um, they're important to get your content discovered. And this is why I I've had these arguments and this great passion over the years on the importance of links because I have friends that wear white hats and black hats like and um the black hats are like you're a fool if you think that links don't matter. Links are like everything. And the white hats who are like legitimately are ranking websites are like we haven't had success with link building in years. Here's the difference. If you're a black hat, you're probably more likely to be working on a website that that only exists for the purpose of search. And um that means that it's harder to get it found. And so if I'm a white hat that's working on a business that gets mentioned, you know, in the press or like social media or whatever, Google can see like there are there's evidence of people talking about it. Um but for a black hat website uh links are needed in order to get attention from Google in order to get Google to crawl the the content. So that's one thing. Then links are also a component of EAT. So uh in 2017 I asked Gary how EAT was measured and he said it's primarily based on links and mentions and he said for example if the Washington Post mentions you it's a good thing. So I think that that's less about the link and more um about the connections in the knowledge graph. So if I um is one of the reasons why I do podcasts uh that this will be evidence on the web that you found me worthy to talk about these subjects, right? Um and you know you'll maybe you'll link to my website, maybe you won't, but regardless like it's okay. Either way is is good. Um regardless. So, uh, I did an interview last week with, um, 97th floor Paxton Gray, and he mentioned in the title of his podcast, he said Marie Haynes, SEO and AI expert, and didn't link with those words, but it was the podcast. I looked I couldn't believe my rankings. Uh when I I checked my rankings last week, I was ranking um in the AI overview and number six organically for Google SEO expert, which like has not been something I've not been building that I'm not optimized like I mean I'm a little bit optimized for it. Um but what I'm trying to say is the mentions uh in on the web being known as the quality raider guidelines mention repeatedly being known for your topics. It's reputation that matters more than links. So when you said authority, I think if authority is um uh aligned with reputation, then that is true. So my instead of link building, I like to see people switch to reputation building is like getting you known for uh the topics that you're that you talk about. It just it just because it because you become an entity and then Google sees that for that entity, right? That's how if I if I get mentioned in search engine land or I like I write something for search engine journal or something like that like that's connecting the entities my name as an entity with the topic of SEO or AI or whatever right um and so it yeah it's the whole the knowledge graph is really like just connections between words and things and um and so that should be our goal where but it aligns very much with links because uh the link graph is very similar and I think that so here's an interesting fact Penguin was 2012 a month later less than a month later was when the knowledge graph came out and um shortly after that in 2013 was when Google's word tovec paper came out which was the start of uh using um uh language semantics of language to understand uh queries and content and so Since that time period, which coincidentally has been like the time that I've been in SEO. So like I've been able to see this grow, uh Google has taken their initial pageorithm, which was based on the the graph of links on the web, and um and and changed it, morphed it into an understanding of everything on the web, not just the links. So, page rank used to be the number one signal and now like there's the March core update last year, Google said we brought in um new signals to the algorithm and uh and so now it's kind of like everything that's available. Okay. Okay. So right now now uh so I I know you said uh for your uh clients as well as your community that it's important that they continue to follow how AI and take screenshots. Now uh my question is what are some early mistakes you see uh you have is you are seeing businesses make as they try to adopt AI powered server. I think one of the things it's so hard because we anybody who's interested in AI can see that it's changing the world but there's this frustration because we don't know what to do. Like even me, I I use AI all day long and I feel like I'm going in a million different directions when the knowledge that I have should, you know, I should be able to focus that laser focus on something. So the number one skill that I think businesses can have right now is the ability to learn is just to to to practice every day with using language models and instead of focusing on where they mess up or where they they hallucinate something, focus on like what can you actually accomplish. Like for example, uh I wanted to optimize an image for my website and I gave it to Chatubt and I was like, can you make this 800 pixels wide and optimized for the web? And it was like, no, you need to use a tool for that. And then I said, no, no, you can do it. I believe in you. And it whipped up some Python and uh and now I have a GPT that I just pop in an image and it it optimizes for me. So it's it's like we're learning to speak a new language, you know? So try to get language models to do stuff for you. Um I think every business should be looking at agents, but also it's too early to be like building them unless you're building them for the experience of like learning how to do it. Uh I think we're going to see like great changes. It's kind of like when we first heard of a website like if you built a website I remember I did the um about.com hello world tutorial and like like anything you build built as a website back what in in your early days like you wouldn't be using today right as a as a website. Yeah. So like a lot of it is just learning. Um, and then I think the biggest mistake that people use with AI, that businesses use with AI today is trying to get it to do what you think like what it will do in the future. And u, so using it to completely write content, using it as a shortcut uh, for something where you're like your gut tells you really like it would be better if a human did this, but you're trying to to to use AI to like get ahead. I've seen countless cases of people um publishing large amounts of AI generated content that initially takes off and then crashes. Uh so I I would say today's the age where we are learning learning learning. Um and there will be benefit for those who who do all that learning. Uh but we're not quite at the point um where AI can just you know we can plug it in and it makes us millions of dollars right now. Now with so much change in technology, how do you keep yourself and uh continuously learning and staying ahead of the curve? So I made it my full-time job. I mean I do have clients. I I say full-time job. I probably have two full-time jobs. I have clients, but then I spend every day uh learning uh and reading um the top stories in AI. Um and what I do, so remember I told you in my newsletter was uh to help tell people what Google was doing. Um that's what I do now today is it's it's a mixture of Google news and then also AI news uh and and then also just practicing with the language models. I switch back and forth between Gemini and chatpt. I'll use Grock because I I do think that Grock uh X has uh the largest cluster of supercomputers and um Grock 3.5 is coming out soon. Like Grock is very good considering that it was a latecomer to the to the game. Uh, and I think we need to keep an eye on it. But, um, the new 03 from Chat GPT, which they just increased the usage limits. Even if you're, uh, on a free account or a $20 account, uh, you can use more 03, is mindblowing. It will use tools within ChachiPT. It will do deep research when it thinks it needs to do it. Like, it will create images. Uh, it it understands images better. So, right now, that's my my favorite one. But I I would say just like do all you can just learn get the max out of using the language models. Uh and then um to stay ahead. I mean you can read my newsletter. That would be one thing. Yes. Thank you. Um and then uh and then like don't be afraid to share stuff. If you're somebody who like lurks on social media, there's so much opportunity right now for uh people who are willing to put themselves out there. Like I I've added a few new names to my newsletter from uh mostly a few women on on LinkedIn. I can't remember their names now, but are posting like I did this thing with 03 and it didn't work perfectly, but uh here's what I got, you know, and um and so that's how I became like why I'm on the podcast. That's how I became known was I was willing to try things and share things. One problem that we have in our social media right now, like when I first started on Twitter, I had a group of like maybe 30 friends that we were just talking back and forth with like, oh, I tried this optimizing thing and now I'm on page one. And like today, when you share something, it's like this committee of pitchforks comes out with people just want to knock you down. And I think half those people are bots uh that are just like trying to to keep you in a bad mood or something. Um, but I would say don't be afraid to share stuff and uh and then that's how you get known because if every business is going to have multiple agents and right now the number of people who thoroughly understand SEO and what we know so far about agents is tiny. So there's so much opportunity that's out there right now. Uh now uh for agency owners listening today, what are the top three action they should take right now to prepare for the AIdriven future? Sure. So, like I said, learn to use language models. Um, not even so much with like prompting tutorials. Just just play around with what what you can do. Um, I would actually say read some uh AI research. It's really hard um uh to get through some of these papers, but you can use AI to help you. uh the all of the tools are really good at you know you can say like dumb it down or put it in layman's terms or uh you know you can the new Gemini in you have to pay for Gemini advanced for this but uh you can put in a research paper and say make a game to teach me about this paper and it opens up canvas like spits out a bunch of code and you get like a a a game that has that can teach you the concepts in a paper how wild is that right so so Number two would be like to to read other papers. Be wary of the media. Um because the media uh AI is a threat to the media for obvious reasons. And so everything in the media, not everything, but so much of the media skews negative against AI. Uh so don't believe all the negativity. Don't get um fixed on the drama of who's fired and whatever. Like your goal is to learn what the new models are. And then the third thing I would say is to experiment with building things. So I told you I wasn't a coder and Google invited me to their development conf developer conference. Well now I think I kind of am a coder. Like it would be embarrassing if I you know nobody would ever hire me for my code. Um but I don't know if you've heard of this term vibe coding. It was coined by Andre Karpathy who was one of the he was at Google and one of the founders of OpenAI eventually. Um, and that's where you use language models to help you code stuff. So, I started off I had I I find chat GBT works best. A lot of people like Claude for it. Uh, and I just said like I don't know the first thing about I don't even know where to put my code and chat GBT taught me about VS Code and like you you just try to create something. If you're an SEO, it's really easy to connect with the search console API. And so like try to just get your keywords from the search console API and uh talk in natural language and chat GPT will give you the code and then you put it into VS Code and then if there's an error you give it back to Chat GPT and at some point you think like I'm not even needed here because you're just p I'm the person who pastes stuff back and forth. Um but if you can learn to build stuff then that's going to be a skill that's very very needed in the future. All right now we with this we come to the last section of our u show which is a rapid fire question. So bunch of questions you answer what comes first in your mind. So let's go. So your favorite AI tool you use daily one. Ah I'm going to say chat GPT. It'll change from week to week but yes chatbt. Okay. most underrated SEO tactic today. Um, understanding user intent and making that easy to find and semantically easy for machines to find. Okay. Uh, one technology you think will completely dis disappear in the next 5 years. One technology. Well, that's a tough one. I don't know. Um, I think that I don't know if it's a technology. I mean I think many news websites will disappear. Uh I don't know that I can answer that. All right. Uh personal mantra you live by. Oh my husband gave me this one that uh I did not like it at first but I know it'll help somebody because I went through a lot of bad stuff over the last few years. Um and it was it's not happening to you but for you. Pretty much everything we go through in our life, even if it seems like it's just crap, is building you for something. It's teaching you something. I I agree with that. Yeah. Yes. Now, book or podcast recommendations for agency leaders. Say that again. Sorry. Book books or podcast recommendations for agency leaders. Whoa. Okay. Um podcasts. Uh, so what I do for podcasts is I I go to the front page of YouTube and and just put in AI and I'm mostly listening for lectures from actual AI leaders. So uh what Deis Sabbasis is saying um the founder of Deep Mind uh Deep Mind itself has a podcast. I can't remember the name of it, but I would watch every episode of that. um books. Uh Eric Schmidt has a new book out right now on um it's called Genesis. And then also Mustafa Sullyman uh who was one of the co-founders of Deep Mind now leads AI at Microsoft has a book called the coming wave. I think everybody should read that. It is uh about how AI is going to be changing our world in dramatic ways. Um, and it's not all like it's a good mixture of there can be some bad things but also some very incredible things as well. I'd recommend that. All right. All right. Uh, and Mary, thank you so much for sharing your insights and uh, for more than an hour now. And where can our listeners follow your work or get in touch with you? For sure. So, I would love for everybody to join uh, in our community. It's at community.mmariehanes.com. Um, it's totally free where I post in SEO and AI news every day. Uh, and then there is a paid area which, uh, we have some fantastic discussions, people that are trying to build actual stuff with AI and sharing about what we're doing. Um, and then, uh, my newsletter is mariehannes.comnewsletter and it's about twice a month. Uh, pretty much everything that you need to know in terms of what's happening with AI and search uh, is in there, right? I still remember when there would be a new updates coming all I would do is wait for your newsletter that information and say okay this is what we researched. It's so wild too cuz Google like it for many years every time there was a core update it was when I was traveling like it was almost you could predict like oh I'm going away in May and there's going to be maybe watch May there'll be another update but I haven't traveled as much lately so uh yeah I I love following what Google's doing. Um, I don't study the core updates as much now because they all are basically Google just getting better and better at their goal, which is uh rewarding helpful content. Um, so there's less and less we can uh glean from it other than like just create stuff that's the best for your audience and uh and then that's how you win. Right. Right. Right. Uh uh with that we come to the end of our show and to everyone listening if today's episode sparked new ideas or gave you a road map for navigating the future especially with AI make sure you follow Dr. Mary Haynes and subscribe to her newsletter for regular updates. I myself have been subscriber to it for more than six years now. Thank you. And as always stay curious, stay resilient and keep tuning in to the Agency Insider Show for more expert conversations. Until next time, take care.