# Rand Fishkin — YouTube Transcript 3

**Video URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UoHzp1PyXBA
**Channel:** Rand Fishkin / SparkToro
**Date Collected:** April 29, 2026

## Transcript

[music] >> All right, I am here with another 20 for 20 interview for Search Engine Land's 20th anniversary and I've got a great guest today, someone you probably already know. Rand Fishkin, Rand welcome in. If you want to introduce yourself, I think pretty much everybody in SEO knows you, but if you want to give people who may not who are you, what you do, and sort of yeah, what brought you here to where you are now? Yeah, I think the um the the founder of Search Engine Land Danny Sullivan would would have called me 20 years ago, oh that young whippersnapper, what what's he doing? You know, like >> [laughter] >> how does he think he gets to be involved in this? Um and yeah, I I mean I was a kid when I joined the the search marketing industry um way back in 2003 uh started a site originally called SEOmoz that became Moz and then raised a bunch of venture funding pivoted from consulting to to SEO software and was sort of an early leader in that field and then things went the way they usually do with venture-backed companies and I um stepped down as CEO and then and then left the company in 2018 and started another company that's in an adjacent realm to the marketing world um audience research firm SparkToro which uh helps people understand the behaviors and demographics of audiences and now I have another marketing software company called AlertMouse um that's sort of a passion project that I run with a couple buddies and a video game studio um called called Snack Bar Studio uh making its first video game and that will be out next year. So, lots of projects. Amazing. So, yeah, thank you for making the time for this um and where we are sort of celebrating the 20 years of Search Engine Land um and celebrating search itself. I was kind of curious, you mentioned you came into the industry around 2003, so I was wondering how did you discover SEO and search and did you sort of have a aha moment of like, wow, this is this is really powerful? Yeah, I mean I had a um I had a panic moment um so Danny, my my mom Gillian and I were sort of running this little marketing consultancy in Seattle mostly helping people build websites, helping businesses build websites and we had an we had an SEO subcontractor, like an agency that we worked with where we they they would do all the SEO for the websites that we built. And we ended up not being able to afford to pay them. So, you know, they did good work, but it was just like, hey, you know, we can't we can't afford to pay them and get our customers, so we you know, it was essentially, hey Rand, you need to learn SEO so that we can do it because we promised it to our clients and we can't afford this bill, so um that is how I got into SEO. I I joined a lot of the early forums. This is like pre-social media era, so I joined a lot of the forums um like like Search Engine Watch and um WebmasterWorld and others and then started my own blog which was the SEOmoz blog. Amazing. So, uh did you sort of hinted at this maybe, but uh did you sort of have a a moment uh in search, maybe a big failure of some sort uh early on uh where you were, you know, obviously still learning in early days cuz we all start from nothing. Uh did you have one of those moments where uh you had a maybe a screw-up or just something didn't work the way that you were you thought it would? Oh absolutely. Uh in fact, I got called out for it pretty badly, too. So, this is ooh, maybe maybe 2004, 2005, somewhere around there. Um and there was a there was a gentleman named Matt Cutts who used to be the head of the basically web spam and search quality teams at Google um and he was a a very public participant, sorry. He was a moderately public participant initially under a pseudonym and sort of secretive and then eventually he sort of um you know, went went by his real name and would come to conferences sometimes, but he he he ran a blog on his personal website where he would talk about things that were going on inside of Google and made semi-official announcements. It was, you know, this is early days of Google, right before they went public. Um and I was helping clients, right? Uh doing doing SEO work for clients and writing about it on my blog regularly and some of my work had been featured in um mainstream media at at the time gosh, was it Time or Newsweek magazine? It was like one of the one of the big, you know, weekly publications in the US. This again, you have to take yourself back to a time where, you know, this is the kind of magazine that was sitting on grocery store shelves and like, you know, lots and lots of readership and distribution, tons of online readership as well. And they did a big story about about SEO and I was sort of the the featured or SEOmoz was the featured like party and consultant in there and the reporter had flown out Brad Stone who's um gone on to have a quite a career in media. Um flown flew out, took photos of us, like, you know, did the whole rigmarole and wrote this big story. And then Matt Cutts on his blog Danny, was like hey, you know, it's nice to see whatever SEO getting featured in Newsweek and da da da da da, but Rand, we know about those links you're buying from the Harvard Business Review um and you know, you that's not working, like you don't >> [laughter] >> it was pretty and I had this like, oh my god, so embarrassing, right? Cuz here's this here's the story and then Matt Cutts basically calling me out for buying links which I was 100% doing, right? Like we were buying links on behalf of our clients us and you know, 5,000 other SEO firms, but still, right? Um it was one of those moments, Danny, that made me turn around a lot of my practices and and for the next at least decade, 12 years, I I really became a champion of um and proponent of of organic, what was called white hat SEO at the time. Um you know, let's let's follow Google's guidelines, let's not, you know, buy links, let's not manipulate things, let's not do spam sorts of things um and I think you know what's weird in retrospect? That was an overcorrection and I kind of regret it. I now I now agree with a lot of folks who engaged in manipulation of Google that there was no reason to follow their arbitrary code of ethics when as is clear from their behavior over the last 25 years, they have no code of ethics and will do anything to make more money and to exploit people and to abuse the trust that we give them. Um I feel pretty dumb. I feel taken in by by that. Great. I think Matt was a good guy. I think he left Google at a time when he felt they were no longer um ethical and moral uh and it's super weird to me that Search Engine Land's founder then joined Google. That that blows my mind. Like all you know, all the work that I do these days, right? Right where I try and like, hey, here's what's going on with SEO, here's the the Google leak from last year, right? That was surfaced to me here, you know, let me let me give the Department of Justice sort of all this data about clicks and you know, what what Google's doing. All that work that I do that should be Danny doing it, you know? Like he he was the person for that and I feel like I have to pick up the slack instead, so yeah. So, it's weird times. It is uh yeah, but you know, again, going back, looking back, that that stuff worked. Buying links worked, you know, no matter how much Google said, like, don't do it, don't do it. That's because it worked. Yeah, it worked for everyone except for when Matt found me out and then it just didn't work so good. >> [laughter] >> Uh good old Google guy. Uh cool. Um so, do you have any maybe fun behind the scenes or early SEO memories or stories that you could share? Anything pop to mind? Oh my god. I mean I yeah, I don't know how you know, how involved you were in the early industry, but the man, the the conferences and the parties used to be ridiculous. You know, it wasn't it wasn't quite um whatever, you know, New York in the '80s type of stuff, but it was there was so much money going around to young kids. I mean, Larry and Sergey at Google were so young in in those early years. Um the people running you know, these teams at Google and Yahoo and Microsoft um and Ask Jeeves I think one of the craziest parties I ever went to was the Ask Jeeves party in New York. It was Search Engine Summit SES 2005, maybe, four or five. Um and you know, like >> [laughter] >> I had I had no money, right? We were we were broke as can be. We were in debt. It was uh super hard times for us, right? This was like couldn't pay our SEO subcontractors money. And so I was um I was staying at a like timeshare that my my dad had helped bargain for whatever with with my grandfather Seymour and um you know, we went to this conference and then uh Ask Jeeves had a retirement party for their mascot, Jeeves the the butler. Um this was you know what's so crazy is Ask Jeeves for folks who don't know don't know or don't remember Ask Jeeves very similar to how chat GPT or Google's AI mode um or you know Claude is positioned today like you could you could ask it long strings of information and it would give you more answer-like responses. Um it wasn't using large language models it was sort of pulling from the web and doing um other things Markov chaining stuff. Um it was like the predecessor to LLMs. But regardless of that they decided that they wanted to become more like Google, Yahoo, Bing that this you know long conversational queries that now everybody loves was a thing of the past. They were going to retire Jeeves and they were going to switch to ask.com and become more like their competitors. So they had this giant party in New York. I can't imagine what it must have cost. It couldn't have been less than a couple million dollars. They had a huge troop of actors dressed as stormtroopers who brought in a frozen in carbonite Jeeves like the butler. Actually they they had an actor playing Jeeves who they like put in carbonite during this insane party underground at a you know block-wide venue in New York. Um there probably there must have been north of a thousand people you know search marketers in the room. And I I don't know what the ROI model on this party was but but um but we had you know just a there there was you know free alcohol um as as much as people could drink. I was God 25 years old. Um yeah to to me this was just all completely mind-boggling and I I didn't understand it one bit but but um there was a um a young woman who was there at the party and she she likes to tell the story because um we're now very close friends and have been for for 20 years but uh she I was having some interaction with some sketchy dude there and saw my grandfather right Seymour. Now Danny my grandfather is actually still alive. He's 98 years old. Wow. >> We we still go to bars together like he you know he's he's in fantastic shape. Um but this is what you know 20-some-odd years ago so he's in his his early 70s. Anyway this this young woman whose name is Lindsey spots my grandfather and thinks okay that guy is safe. I'm going to go I'm going to go talk to him and if I hang out with him you know this creepy guy will back off. Anyway she starts talking to my grandfather who then introduces her to me and she became one of our first big clients. Um she was working for a um a job search firm up in Canada and this was one of Moz's like early big consulting wins turned into a huge contract for us. We ended up having a lot of success with them. Um it became a case study and then a couple years later I hired her as my head of SEO. Wow. So you know and then and now you know now we're we're close friends. She's she's moving back up to Seattle actually and and staying at our house for a few weeks coming up. So it's just a I think my favorite thing is my favorite thing Danny about like all my experiences in the search marketing world is people. I absolutely love I love the life that I've been able to build because of the friends and you know colleagues professional and personal that you know that have come into my life because of search. I I really have I have a tremendous amount of gratitude for that. Yep. That's amazing. That's a great story. I had I actually not heard that one somehow so thank you for sharing that one. Um so let's move on a little bit. We you talked a little bit about Google so far. I want to dig into that a little bit. So I was kind of curious to get your take on when do you think this um this where did the relationship go I guess is the best way to put it like uh it seemed like you were kind of ahead of the curve on the the zero click stuff like seeing Google really like start to take clicks from publishers. So when do you think this started and why and how did we get to where we are now? Yeah yeah so you might know that Amanda Natividad and I are are writing a book about zero click marketing and and zero click search and all that kind of stuff and and zero click social. Um and doing some anthropological research into this Danny I actually found that uh the person who coined the term that the very first mention that I could find of it on the internet uh was Gabriel Weinberg from DuckDuckGo. Oh wow. So this was 2000 I want to say 2011. You know he is kind of starting up DuckDuckGo. It's been running I think a couple of years. Uh for folks who don't know DuckDuckGo like an alternative a privacy-focused alternative to Google that has a substantive market share like a few points of market share which of course in a 5 trillion searches a year world is worth quite a bit. Um and DuckDuckGo uh basically saw that Google was starting to answer searches without providing clicks right? They were introducing map boxes, weather boxes, calculators, color pickers, you know just all sorts of things. They put widgets and instant answers at the top. This is pre obviously pre-AI overviews. It's pre-instant answers. Like most of the rich snippets that you see today Google had just barely started introducing these um at the time Gabriel noticed it. But so he coins this term and I remember gosh maybe a year or two later I filmed maybe my first Whiteboard Friday about Google taking clicks away from marketers and away from the open web. Um I want to say there was a a panel discussion at one of the big conferences um might have been Pubcon in Vegas or maybe it maybe was a a um what you call it an SMX maybe it was a MozCon I can't remember. And you know I think Matt Cutts there was there from Google and uh and I was there and you know some other folks and brought up this like hey Google is taking traffic from the open web and uh you know Matt sort of had his like hey this is this is not something we intend to do. We we want to serve publishers. Couple years later I think he found out that um that's what he wanted to do but not what >> [laughter] >> not what Wall Street wanted Google to do. And yeah over the next few years it grew and grew. I think the first robust study I did on it was 2016 or 17. Uh we partnered with a firm called Jumpshot when I just before I left Moz and released some research about like hey globally speaking you know here's what percent of clicks of searches end without a click and it was you know it was close to half. A couple years later 2018 it was over half. Today it's over two-thirds. Right? So zero click search has become a huge trend. I think I think now everybody talks about it especially in the AI era but it's been going on for 15 years. Mhm. Yeah and how do you think publishers have reacted? I know that AI really brought this into much bigger focus for a lot of people. I think a lot of people kind of let it go with featured snippets and that sort of stuff early on. They're like well it's not really changing things that much but I don't >> Yeah. Yeah I'm just how do you feel like publishers have reacted to all of this? Are they doing the right things? Uh is there more that they can be doing at this point in time to I don't know fight back's the right word but it it it does it's a big change and I don't think a lot of people are fully prepared like for if you know AI mode becomes the default like that's going to radically change how content is consumed and where clicks go and all that. So I feel like we're still even as much as zero click is we're seeing now it's only going to get worse. >> yeah it's only going to get worse absolutely. Um I think the time to fight back for publishers was 15 or 20 years ago. Right? They what what they needed to do that they they didn't do is recognize like hey we have wonderful businesses that are profitable and and growing and doing nicely in this digital era has some opportunities for us but also some threats and risks and rather than letting Google crawl our sites wholesale we need to as a media conglomerate right? That what should have happened if they wanted to protect themselves was you know the New York Times and Washington Post and and Seattle Times and you know all these publishers of of content especially the big media ones top 500 should have gotten together at their annual conferences and said whoa wait a minute. We need to all go to Google together and negotiate to say do you want to crawl our stuff and take our things and answer you know right in right in the search results that's totally fine but you need to pay us or we'll block you. Mhm. And they needed to lobby Congress right? They need what what Google recognized from the Microsoft lawsuit of the late 90s Danny was they saw the writing on the wall. They saw that if they bought elections you know we have legalized bribery in the United States right? So you can you can sort of post Citizens United you can unlimited campaign contribute but Google discloses that that are I think the second largest lobbyist in the United States and the second largest second or third largest contributor to campaigns in the US. And they don't, you know, they're not partisan about it. Democrats Republicans independents they'll give money to anybody. Right, as so long as those people kind of protect them and and give them the ability to do what they want to do. If you look at what happened with the DOJ trial, right they they managed to get a favorable judge in a favorable region. They they, you know, same thing in the EU, right, where they like paid all these independent researchers behind the scenes who advised the EU Commission. And so, yeah, they've been able to really manipulate public policy and and government policy in their favor. And publishers just missed that opportunity. They had it. They could have done something, but it became too little, too late. Today, the only thing they can do is figure out how to play the game differently. Right? How do if I am a publisher of information and that's my primary business, how do I do that in a way that's either going to inspire lots of subscribers, right? Or is going to take advantage of the zero-click environment that we're living in and find a way to monetize the attention that I earn on the platforms? That's That's a really different business. I think most publishers are pretty uncomfortable with it. And and as a result, you know, you can see places like The New York Times have become essentially a games platform with the news business behind it. Um you know, I think that I can't remember what the numbers were. It's somewhere in the north of 50% of their subscribers view almost no news from them and exclusively play their games. Wow. So, they've essentially become, you know, they might as well be a subscription Minecraft service. You know, that's that's what that company is now. And then they also have this like vestigial news side of the thing. Um Yeah. Weird. That's crazy. That's very crazy. >> [laughter] >> So, where do you think at what point does the Google sort of I don't know lost the plot as it were. Like, you know, early on it was very much they were anti-ads even in their incorporation not incorporation, but when they filed for IPO. Like, they were they were very explicit what they did not want to become and it over the years they sort of became that. Do you think it was a question of, you know, sort of pressure to grow, pressure to have revenue profit? Like, what do you sort of think drove this uh evolution in Google from what it was more of a very pure search engine that people loved to what it is now, which is kind of a frustrating ad-soaked, you know, experience where you sometimes don't even get what you're looking for? Yeah well so I do want to be careful about this. At my My sense, Danny, is that Google is still delivering an experience that is generally superior to competitors because if they weren't, switching costs are extremely low. Like, this is the one part of the DOJ case where I I agree with them. Switching costs are super low. So, if it was easier or better to search on Bing or search on DuckDuckGo or whatever, people would go to those places. Like, that migration would happen. But we have not seen that. Google's market share hasn't moved in 15 years. Yep. Um like, they've been 90% plus in the US, 95% plus in the EU and rest of world outside of, you know, China and Russia and few other places, Korea. Um but they I I I can't say that they're offering a worse experience. What I can say is they're offering a terrible experience for publishers, creators, independent website owners, even big website owners, right? Like, nobody nobody is thrilled with Google entering every single space and becoming a competitor using their own data to compete against them and becoming a competitor. As for when they lost the plot of sort of deciding that their core values were no longer their values and their true value was how do we show Wall Street consistent quarterly growth and maximize that. Um I think it was a I think it was a slow burn and slow trickle. Like, as as they raised more venture as they, you know, as the founders, right? Um went public and then started spending time with a group of people whose values were money and growth over all other ethical and moral concerns. I think that the the founders and the board and the CEO um and that the leadership of Google became the people that they spent time with. Right? And like, if it's 1999 and you're spending time with a bunch of, you know, poor techno-optimists at Stanford. I I shouldn't say poor, but like, you know, whatever, middle class and and all classes, you know, broke college kids, you're a techno-optimist, right? And you you create these like lofty ideals and that's how you're going to recruit people and that's how you're going to build that early thing. And then you start spending time with bankers and getting flown to Saint-Tropez and going to Epstein's Island and you're like, my god, this life, you know, right? And so it it is it is corrupting. I can tell you from personal experience that this is a rabbit hole I I could have seen myself falling down to. Right? Like, I, you know, I don't want to pretend that like, oh, you know, oh Rand, you're so high and mighty. No, my god I you know, I I lusted after that same wealth. I wanted that, you know, those connections and to be important in VC world and you know, to be on stages at TechCrunch and all that kind of stuff. Like, I I wanted it, too. I I chased it for years. Sometimes I I don't know. Sometimes I feel lucky that I failed. Right? Like, that that it didn't it didn't work out. You know, Moz, I think Moz probably topped out, I don't know, somewhere between 50 and 60 million dollars in revenue, which is which is piddly for, you know, venture world. And eventually it sold, which, you know, we got we got a nice check from that, but not, you know, we're we're we're not going to be buying an apartment in New York or anything, right? Right. Yeah. It's very different from like, you know, well, the Google guys have several islands they own and a few cruise ships and, you know, whatever. Nope, not that. So, is there anything from the early days of Google or SEO that you miss and sort of wish could come back in 2026? Gosh, I mean, I think my biggest my biggest wish, like, if I, you know, if I got one genie wish to change Google and the shape of the web in some way, it would be that uh the 99% of the opportunity that comes from uh search and social and content platforms goes to a microscopic few companies. Uh Google themselves, obviously Alphabet, right? Um but Meta and and Apple and you know, that these types of businesses. I I love that in the early days that opportunity went to almost everyone. You could be a you know, nobody who who, you know, was a college dropout and didn't, you know, couldn't couldn't like make your career work in regular world. And if you built something awesome on the internet that people loved in your specific sphere, oh man, you know, Google would drive traffic to you, Facebook would send you fans, you could post your links and then people would come, you know, people would open your newsletter and click it. The the world of clicks and traffic and opportunity was so, relatively speaking, so flat compared to the peak and valley that we have today. That's That's what I wish we could bring back. That's a good one. Uh that'd be my wish, too, actually. I like that. I'll steal your wish. >> [laughter] >> Uh okay. How about so for today in AI search world, do you feel like there's any big myths or just something that people really don't understand about what's happening today? Maybe they're still stuck in like old search thinking. Is there anything that you see a lot of, you know, that kind of worries you and that maybe you could warn people like, just be careful here. Uh you know, you may not be getting what you're thinking. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. I mean, a huge one is this um the inconsistency of AI. Right? So, I I don't think, unfortunately, I don't think uh 99.99% of people realize that whereas you go to a traditional search engine, a a Google, a Bing, a DuckDuckGo, a Yahoo, and you you search for something, and you get a set of results that if you hit refresh, right? Or you perform that search again tomorrow, you're going to get almost exactly the same set of results, same answer, right? Like, same things that you'll find. Over time, it'll change, you know, 6 months from now, 9 months from now, 12 months from now. Yeah, the results will bounce around, some things will be higher and lower. There'll be new information that's popped in there. But people have taken that model of thinking, right? That that like essentially what the the results are the results. Like this is this is what this is what Google is telling me. Like this is what's what's true or most accurate or these are the best results right now. And they've applied that thinking to the responses they get from AI. And it is nothing like that. Because if you go let's uh I don't know but we'll use a a silly example. Like what are the um best Oxford leather shoes for men, right? And and so you're like, "Oh man, I have to go to a fancy wedding. I need some I need some shoes." Like all right, let's see what we got here. Well, if you just Google you're going to get like a list of brands and I don't know style forum and Reddit from men's fashion and some YouTube videos and maybe some Instagram videos and a bunch of paid ads of course, right? All that kind of stuff. And if you go to AI and you ask the same question, you'll get a an answer, right? It'll give you a list of things. It'll make some recommendations. But if you go right back to the top and you click ask again, you will get completely different answers. And if you do that 10 times, you will get 10 incredibly unique different answers. One time it'll tell you that Allen Edmonds is, you know, perceived as one of the top quality brands. Another time it'll tell you Allen Edmonds uh is at the lower tier or lowest tier of, you know, men's Who knows? Like which which one is it? But people don't ask multiple times. And so the AI tools can kind of get away with like, "Haha, you know, you didn't notice that this is just a random string of words. It's a spicy autocomplete of like things that frequently come after other things that is slightly randomized and sometimes you can get totally different, you know, lists of brands." So the thing that I have started doing that I don't think anybody does is now if I actually want an answer from an AI about any topic, I got to ask again and again and again. And it's only if like six, seven, eight times out of 10 that a response shows or like a brand shows or a recommendation shows that I'll actually trust it. And I this is pretty it's pretty frustrating and dangerous like that you know, the example I gave when we did this research that I think is most salient and poignant is like Danny, imagine you know, imagine you and I have a close friend um in the industry or something who who you know, comes down with cancer and they're looking for the very best cancer care. And we're like, "Oh my god, you know, we're search experts. Like let's do some research. Let's see if we can help find this person. Like what's the best cancer care hospital, you know, in the United States for this particular kind of cancer and find you that best one." And if you ask ChatGPT or Claude or or Google's AI mode one time, that that is it's a terrible way to go. If you ask 100 times and then you sort of you know, put it out there, you'll probably get five or 10 hospitals that you should investigate. Like the the ones that come up most consistently again and again, those are probably the ones where they have the most, you know, sort of um the most people on the internet and publications on the internet and you know, whatever um hopefully, you know, sources with criteria that have judged them and ranked them, whatever US News & World Report like all these kinds of things. And this is the aggregate of that of those opinions that's that's recommending them to you. But I don't think this is how people are using it, especially for medical stuff. Like they're, you know, they ask one time and they're like, "Okay, well, this is the best doctor for this or this is the best kind of care for that or I guess I should take ibuprofen or I guess I shouldn't take naproxen." And you know, whatever it is and man, if you don't ask a bunch of times, you don't really know. It's just it's pretty weird to me. I don't I don't know if this is a problem that a large language model can fix over time either. Like I've talked to a number of researchers who are like, "Man, the fundamental tech behind it would have to be different for that to change." And it worries me. It worries me that people don't even if they know how it works, they don't think to ask 10 times and then judge the average. Yep. Yeah, that's a great point. And it'll be interesting too because a lot of the LLMs uh are very interested in being, you know, basically like the first sort of personal assistant eventually where it's just like they know everything about you and all this fun stuff. And uh it seems like a lot of this stuff in the future may be more like for instead of large language models, I'm hearing a lot about like small language models where it's more like your your device. Like it's going to just know you from all the things you search, all the things, you know, all the things you do on your devices. So that may that may I don't know if that will solve that problem, but I'll be interested to see if it improves on that potentially. I don't know. Have you looked much into that? I Yeah I uh I haven't I haven't gone down that rabbit hole. I've been skeptical of things like open claw and others that, you know, integrate with all all of your stuff. I um I would generally urge people to be extraordinarily careful if you want a large language model that is not owned and controlled by you to access your information. I I guarantee 100% guarantee, you know, 500 bucks to each of you if it's not true that your data is being used in ways that you would prefer it not be used. Right? When you when you connect up your email, your calendar, your phone contacts, your search history, all those things um man, if you are just trusting that Sam Altman and OpenAI are going to be ethical and do only high-quality things with your data and keep it protected, you there's so many bridges in Brooklyn I can sell you. So many Nigerian princes who need you to send them some money. Uh so a couple fun little funnish questions for you. Uh looking back over your time, this could be past, present, future. Are there any people within search SEO uh that you think maybe are sort of unsung heroes or just been kind of overlooked? Like people you know who are like who had like kind of big uh contributions to the industry helping it move forward? Oh my gosh. I mean, God, that list is so long. How do you um Go with the obvious one first, I guess. Gosh. Nobody will get angry with you if you don't mention them, I promise. Yeah, yeah. I think I mean, there must be there must be thousands of unsung heroes. I you know, I think um someone someone I that I think fondly of all the time who uh I think probably probably doesn't get mentioned near nearly as much as they should is um is Will Critchlow. I uh he he ran an agency called Distilled with with his partner Duncan Morris. Um They were an early leader in what I would say is like bringing a degree of professionalism and um and also deep kindness and and a lot of statistical rigor to the practice of search marketing and and SEO and SEM. Um And if you look at the uh people that Distilled hired especially between sort of the years of, you know, you know, maybe '05 and 2015, those people that list of people and the careers they have built is just incredible. Like superstars all over. You look at that Distilled alumni set and you're like, "Oh my god, wait, they all all those people all worked for Distilled at that at that time. What was going on? How did they hire those folks?" And a lot of them were, you know, fresh out of college um or, you know, coming from a uh another agency and they just picked them up and managed to turn them into stars. It's quite quite remarkable. I I don't know that they get a ton of recognition and credit for that anymore, but I I think they should. Awesome. I wanted to do just a little bit of fun word association with you. Give you a couple names of people and and companies and you tell me what pops to mind. Okay. We'll start We'll start with Google. When I say Google, what do you think? Well, it makes me think of big tech and a a company that traded great values for uh a lot of money and a lot of evil and Trojan horse the web. All right. Danny Sullivan. Oh man, I have so many complex feelings. I I feel so much gratitude towards Danny. He gave me a lot of my early shots. That that conference I mentioned, SES, where where Jeeves was retired, that whole story. Danny gave me a free ticket to go to that show because I was writing in his forums and he knew who I was cuz he'd read my blog and oh my god, you know, I I will never forget that kindness that he showed. He was just wonderful to me. Invited me to to speak at some early conferences um that he was running at the time. And and at the same time I gosh, I'm so disappointed in what he decided to do later in his career and you know, going to work for Google and going to work for Google and and really towing the company line. You know, he didn't become an internal critic. He didn't become a I don't know, a whistleblower or someone who, you know, sort of said like, "Hey, I this this is what's really going on here. I I don't know. I I I wish things had gone differently. I hope I hope he's happy. I hope he's safe and well. I wish the best for him, but I I also wish that I don't know. In the movie version of this, right? Like in the movie version Danny like comes out as a hero at the end, right? And like, you know, there's this big trial against Google and he's the star secret witness and he's like, "Okay, I have to tell you I I it's sitting on my shoulder, you know? >> [laughter] >> Here's all these things that we did." And then the judge rules against them and real antitrust action is taken and the web becomes a more open place again. I don't know. So, maybe maybe it'll happen. Not come with. All right. How about Barry Schwartz? Oh, what a mensch. What a mensch. What a What a servant, right? Like he just he gives and he gives without ever any thought of return. He he occasionally, you know, I've had an issue with an article he wrote. I'm like, "I don't like this positioning or, you know, I don't appreciate this phrasing or whatever it is, Barry." But my god, he works tirelessly to inform people, to help them. His kindness and generosity and work ethic is I I don't know how he does it. I don't know how he does it. I think he deserves he deserves the Nobel Prize of search marketing. Amazing. Love it. Uh how about Search Engine Land? Search Engine Land. You know, it's funny, my association with the publication is that, you know, this sort of like um the old, you know, Danny Sullivan's old masters, right? Who had who had bought um his previous company Search Engine Watch, was it? I think. Yeah. Like he you know, he started to have some significant challenges with them. His non-compete expires. He goes and starts it with with Chris Elwell. And um yeah, builds this publication that really became a um a leader in sharing information. I think I think the beautiful thing is that it has not unlike so many so many media publications, it hasn't gone downhill. It has become more respected and important over time. That's That's quite a legacy. How about SMX? Our conference series. Yeah, yeah. Uh I gosh, I must have spoken at two dozen, three dozen, maybe more SMXs. Um and yeah, always always had good experiences, met wonderful people. Um had lovely friendships built on the on the back of that. So, I have I have nothing but gratitude. I do remember I do remember, funny enough um Danny got very upset. This is like early years of of the SMX conference series because MozCon, which had started in Seattle years before, but it had always been this kind of small bit, was becoming this giant thing, right? Where like I I think, you know, north of 2,000 people were attending in maybe 2012, 13, 14, around that time. And I just remember Danny having this like all "You're not going to expand this. Like you're not going to go to other cities, right? Like I don't want >> [laughter] >> And um yeah, there was there was a time I don't I don't think we ever signed a non-compete or a non-disclosure around this. So, I think it's fine to talk about. There was a time when Third Door Media was like, "Hey, can we try and buy Moz?" And it was early very early days, like before ooh, I want to say it must have been '06 or '07, right before our our first venture round. And we seriously considered it and then you know, whatever deal sort of fell apart. We ended up taking venture instead and and growing the business. Um And then, you know, for several years there was some discussion at Moz of like, "Should we buy Third Door Media?" And yeah, so that like MozCon SMX thing back in those years had so many uh so many fun intersections professionally and personally, but always never with animosity, always in this good-spirited competition, which I think uh is one of the most beautiful things about the search marketing world, to be honest. Like there was never never a lot of animosity even between direct competitors. Great. Um so, in your SparkToro used to be at Moz. Uh I was curious, is there anything that building SparkToro or that maybe you learned uh from Moz that you applied with SparkToro? Or was there any new lessons that you learned building uh your second company? Yeah, second, third, and fourth have all gone with a very different structure. Um and that's because I didn't I never wanted a company that had the incentives and the pressure to grow fast or die trying that a venture-backed business has. Um you know, so I obviously, I don't know Third Door Media's like revenue these days or whatever it is, but you know, like Chris can sit down and basically say, "Hey, you know, we grew 5% or 10% or we shrank 5%, but next year it'll be better. We'll We'll grow a little more. Our margins did this or that." It's all fine, right? It's all fine. The company's privately owned. If it If it makes money consistently, employs people, produces a good product, serves its customers, that's wonderful. And that's the kind of business I wanted with SparkToro and with Alert Mouse and with SnipBar Studio. And it was the kind of business that I signed away at Moz. Um you know, where you're essentially in a portfolio of hundreds or thousands of other companies all trying to reach that billion-dollar valuation or, you know, billion-dollar exit, multi-billion-dollar exit. And 99 out of 100 of you don't get there and most of those are sold for parts or completely die or bankruptcy, shut down. Um that's not a not a particularly fun world to be in. Um And I I learned a lot from that. I in a way, I'm glad I did it once because I feel like I would always wonder. I would always be wondering, "What's it like to be a, you know, sort of real entrepreneur?" And now I found um that is not real entrepreneurship. That's just a a deeply late-stage capitalist model to help make wealthy people a lot wealthier. Not a not a big motivator for me. Okay. Um and then to close this out, um I guess I'd like to ask you, you know, kind of kind of talking about the last 20 years of search. Uh like to think a little bit toward the future. Uh do you have any I know it's crazy to think predictions for the next 20 years or so, but are there any lessons or any messages that you would want somebody found this video in a time capsule or whatever? Whatever YouTube is in 20 years from now. Uh I don't know. Do you have any sort of lessons or advice or what What would you tell people? Uh and where do you think this is all heading in the next 20 years if you had to make your best guess? Well, um I think that for better or worse, we are going to end up in a media environment and consumption environment that's that's quite similar to what the 20th century was, actually. Which is a a smaller set of powerful organizations controlling the flow of information. Um you know, whereas whatever it was, you know, it was ABC and NBC and CBS in in the 20th century in the United States, at least. Maybe the BBC in the UK and like the seven channels that they got there. Um I think, unfortunately, it's going to be a big five to 10, maybe 15 um networks who control a tremendous amount of the flow of the big difference will be that the creators of content in those places are going to be a lot of individuals and small organizations, right? The whatever. The people who post on Instagram, the people who make TikTok videos, the people who put up stuff on YouTube. Like those those individuals uh will will continue to control a lot more of their individual channels, but then the the filtration at the top, the algorithmic bias, uh that's going to be those big media things. And I hope if if I had a lesson to learn, it's that it's kind of a beautiful thing to be able to destroy those power structures and tear them down and build something new. And maybe maybe the third time, maybe this next time it'll persist. Right? Maybe whatever disrupts and disintermediates the power networks that control the flow of information on the internet. I don't know if that's decentralization or you know, whatever. People thought it might be blockchain for a little while. It's obviously not going to be that. But whatever it is that can destroy that take that chance. Take that chance and then maybe maybe next time elect the right people and pass some laws and enforce them fairly and accurately to keep keep that independence and that opportunity for for everyone, not just for the big few. Mhm. And do you think like people in 20 years they'll look back on this period of time of search, like they'll feel like primitive times or like, you know, people actually used to go and type words into a little box? Like Do you have like any vision of where you think this is all going? Like will search as we've known it for the last 20 25 years or so will even be recognizable in 20 years from now. I mean the wild you know the wild part of search is like I I don't know exactly how old you were right but but I'm going to guess we're similar ages. When we were in grade school you went to the library you went to the you know whatever like the the little you know CRT green screen and you'd search in a keyword to find the book that had the reference for the information that you needed like I don't think search is going anywhere. I think I think thinking of information in digestible chunks that you can quickly retrieve is going to be something that's of interest to people for a thousand years 10,000 years like I don't I don't I don't think that's going anywhere that who runs it who owns it how it's formatted sure that that might change. The one weird thing I will say is it would not surprise me at all if 20 years from now people look back at this era of AI chatbots and think gosh that was so inefficient like why were they all seduced by this idea that they had to type in long sentences and paragraphs and then rephrase them and frame them. Didn't they recognize that they had something where they could just type in best Oxford shoes for men and like get great results like it's weird to me that speaking of that Ask Jeeves example like to me a lot of AI search behavior prompting for for tasks is different and I totally understand that. I think that makes a ton of sense. But prompting long detailed prompting for search intent as opposed to I can just type in two keywords or like say three words to my phone. It feels like going backwards. Like I I'm surprised that Google didn't become the thing after the chatbots that rather than before. Amazing and all right we'll end it on that. Now Rand thank you for the time a great conversation a great insight as as always and great to actually get to talk to you face-to-face on camera for my first time so it was a great thrill for me so I appreciate you taking the time. >> My absolute pleasure Danny. Please keep in touch if there's something I can do for you folks just let me know and and let me know when this is out I'll I'll promote it to you. All right amazing. Thanks so much Rand. You bet take care. >> [music]